CALL
You may CALL a good dragon to hire it for flight or for defending you
against evil dragons.  See DRAGONS.
#
DRAGONS DRAGON
Dragons in medievia covers some interesting things.  What are Dragons in
Medievia?  They are good and bad.  Both evil and good dragons love gold. 
They will do some remarkable things for gold.
EVIL Dragons will fight you for gold.
GOOD Dragons will fly you around and defend you for gold.

Here are the details.  As you walk around the wilderness you may notice an
evil dragon start circling above.  (Once one appears you may use the SURVEY
command to keep track of it)  When an evil dragon is circling it is
searching for prey.  To be blunt, RUN.  You have about 60 seconds before the
dragon lands.  Once it lands it starts searching and walking around in ever
increasing circle patterns.  It is searching for a SCENT!  Yes the first
scent it finds may be yours!  If it finds the scent of a player level 13+ it
will immidiately start HUNTING you.  You will know if this happens.  A
dragon can move very quickly so if your being hunted your best bet is to go
as fast as you can.  If you can find water like a brook or stream you can
walk down it a ways and he may lose the scent trail.  Evil dragons are
always plaguing Medievia this way.  They only want GOLD.  If it finds you it
will fight you till it pins you down and takes all your gold.  You will
usually not be killed as once it thinks it can take your gold it will do so
and fly off.  Scary stuff.  GOOD Dragons are also very intersting.  You can
use the CALL command to call a good dragon.  When you do so be warned it
will require a lot of gold for its services.  It is said that Vryce controls
the good dragons.  Once called you will notice the dragon appear over the
horizen and fly towards you.  You can use the SURVEY command to keep track
of it.  When it lands you may MOUNT it and use it to FLY places.  Once its
MOVEMENTs are gone it will fly off.  Also there is a bit of a time limit, if
you daly around on the ground it will get bored and fly off.  If your being
hunted by an evil dragon it will not come to you but it will assume you are
paying it to defend you.  Good dragons are great fighters.  You will see it
appear and fly towards your hunter.  It will bolt out of the sky and POUNCE
on it...the fight could go either way.  

It is said that the dragons carry a lot of gold.  Some very high level
players attempt DRAGON HUNTING.  They do so by looking for dragons circling. 
Evil ones.  When they see one they attempt to get as close to them as they
can before they land and move all over...leaving their scent all over so the
dragon will be attracted to them.  They realize it is important for the
people not to be in the same room as the dragon is not stupid.  Once the
dragon starts fighting or hunting part of the group they swarm in on it.  It
is possible for many high levelers to kill an evil dragon.  They can get a
lot of gold and be known as a DRAGON HUNTER for a time,  also the dragon
PARTS may be sold for BIG time gold in town.  DRAGON HUNTERS are couragious
fellows who earn Vryce's respect.  Are you up to a REAL challenge?

SEE ALSO:  Mounting, Flying, Wilderness, Survey.
#
WILDERNESS
The wilderness in medievia to date encompasses over 4 million rooms.  As you
walk around in the wilderness when you have brief off you will see an
overhead map.  If you have ansi COLOR on you will see it in color.  Color
really helps the map come to life.  If you do not have a color telnet
application see our new WWW page.  Moving around in the wilderness can be
made much easier by MOUNTING.  To get from place to place quickly you may
fly DRAGONS.  TRADING is the key to making money in the wilderness.

When in the wilderness if you type LOOK you will see the room but if you
type LOOK around you will get the map.  As you walk you get the map.  The
mage spell WIZARD EYE gives a HUGE map allowing the mage to see very far.

SEE ALSO: Color, Mounting, Trading, Dragons, Wizard Eye

Following is some help and breakdown of the map display:
Symbol	Color		Meaning
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(pound)	white	 	you
@	white		a link between the wilderness and a zone
I	gray		a fence
I	purple		a wall
:	variable	this symbol indicates a road or trail, the various
			colors indicate different types
.	blue		ocean
.	yellow		beach or desert
.	cyan		shoreline
.	white		arctic wasteland
^	gray		mountains
^	dark green	forested hills
^	green		grassy hills
^	brown		barren hills
+	green		forest
"	green		grasslands
%	green		swamp
x	green		jungle
*	blue/cyan	lake/pond
(squigly)	blue/cyan	river/stream

There are many more symbols of various colors which aren't shown on this 
  list.  This list provides you with the main symbols.

Note:  Most of the map should be intuative.  Green symbols indicate some
       type of vegetation; forests, swamps, jungles, grasslands.  Blue
       symbols indicate some type of water, etc.
#
TRADING TRADE
Long ago, prior to the entry of disruptive and hostile forces into the 
lands of Medievia, trade was a peaceful occupation, conducted with 
relative ease by merchants.  But that was long ago, now the prescence of 
raiders, and malicious creatures along the once peaceful trade routes, 
make any trade hazardous, and demand the prescence of well armed, and 
crafty escorts.  This situation, while tragic in some respects, provides 
an unparalleled opportunity for profit.  

Trade functions in medievia following the same basic principle that has 
always guided such ventures, SUPPLY AND DEMAND!  Your objective as a 
trader should always be to buy items in areas of high supply, and sell 
them in areas of low supply, and consequently high demand.  These items 
are known as tradables, and my be purchased in the the tradeshops of the 
various cities. In order to haul your goods from one locale to the next, 
you will need to provision yourself with a suitable means of transport, 
such as a wagon, and a horse to pull it.  Wagons and mules are frequently 
available at the same places where you buy your goods.

In order to make your venture profitable, you may want to consult the 
local Newspaper.  The newspaper, generally known as the Mudslinger, will 
list information regarding the availability of goods in different areas.

The most important factor concerning how much you will be payed for your
goods is how much the local economy has in stock.  Also taken into account  
on a smaller scale is the WORTH of the item as the risk of transporting
adamantite and gold is more then transporting nails.  Finally the actual
distance from where the item was produced and where it is being sold is part 
of what goes into deciding "fair market value".  When a tradeshop keeper
sets out to decide on what to pay you he takes all these things into
consideration along with some other minor things.  The ECONOMY code in
medievia is one of the most extensive modules.

SEE ALSO : TRADESHOPS FREIGHT TRADABLES MUDSLINGER SCORE
#
TRADESHOPS TRADESHOP
Trade shops are the hub of the local economy, here goods are bought and 
sold, rumors exchanged, and fortunes made and lost.  In order to see the 
goods available at a trade shop , simply type <list>. You will notice 
that there are two types of goods available; tradables such as ale and 
seed, and freight to carry the goods, such as mules, horses, and wagons.

NOTE: You MUST have some freight in order to buy goods.
NOTE: typing describe freightname will state the relative size and weight
capacity of the wagon or beast.

SEE ALSO : FREIGHT TRADABLES MUDSLINGER SCORE TRADE TRADING
#
FREIGHT
Freight is your means of transoporting goods from one area to another.  
Typcial freight would be a horse and a wagon. YOU MUST have freight in 
order to purchase goods.  Once you have some freight, you would 
presumably load it with tradables by buying the item you wish to 
transport.  This automatically loads the tradable onto your freight.  
Similarly, selling a tradable automatically unloads it from your freight.  
In order to see what you are currently hauling type <examine freight>, 
eg. <examine wagon>.  Freight is typically bought and sold in the various 
trade shops, ie the same place you buy your goods.

NOTE: As with mounts, your freight is restricted to travel in certain 
terrain, if you attempt to enter an area unsuitable for your freight, you 
run the risk of leaving it behind.  Wagons are the most restricted as they
must keep to major roads.  Mules also must keep to roads and smaller trails
and open areas while horses are the least restricted.  

NOTE:  Keep in mind some tradeshops may only be accessible by horse.

SEE ALSO: TRADE TRADING TRADESHOPS TRADABLES MUDSLINGER
#
TRADABLES
Tradables are simply the goods with which you trade.  They are bought and 
sold, along with the freight to carry them, in the trade shops.  YOU MUST 
have freight in order to purchase tradables.  Tradables are bought and 
sold in bulk, eg you would buy a barrel of ale, or a spool of chain. In 
order to see a tradable simply type <look tradable>, eg <look hemp>. Note 
that when buy tradables, you should have a clear plan as to where you 
want to sell them.

SEE ALSO: TRADE TRADING TRADESHOPS FREIGHT MUDSLINGER
#
DETERIORATION DET
Time may heal all wounds, but it is not so easy on your equipment. After 
long periods of use, and or exposure to the elements, your equipment will 
begin to show it's age. In addition, no mage has yet found a suitable 
material to store magic indefinitely. Hence any magic channeled into an 
item will slowly return to the earth. This manifests itself in a general 
decrease in the statistics of all equipment over time.  Eventually a piece 
of equipment will become completely unusable, and crumble into dust.  

Having equipment det is very important for the lively hood of the mud.  You
may at first hate eq det.  But think about this.  If we were to make a
really good object or if we allowed our TWEAK code to make a very good
object...something really AWSOME and we did not have det...this item would
remain for YEARS!  We have had some old bloodstones years old.  You can
quickly see that in a short time, a year or so....all items in the game
would be awsome...totally unbalancing the game as the awsome items would be
average.  This starts what we imps call, stat wars.  To be blunt, it sucks. 
With eq det in we are allowed to make AWSOME stuff!  AND we can allow the
code to make awsome stuff for us..without worry.  You can see that in the
end eq det is a good thing.  The ability to find Great items is higher.  The
mud stays balanced.  People have more fun.  Good mudders get better and bad
mudders get worse.  All in all a great code enhancement.
#
DESCRIPTION
The description command allows you to create a physical description of 
your character. This is the first thing people will see when they look 
at you. When you use this command you will enter into medievia's on line 
editor, SEE ALSO HELP EDITOR, and from here you will create your 
personal description.

NOTE: Please try to maintain some semblance of reality when editing your 
description, it is best to stick to describing physical characteristics, 
rather than describing some activity that your player would not be 
engaged in at all times.

LAW: Your description MUST and I repeat MUST be medievial.  If it is not you
will be REMOVED.  We will NOT allow a player to ruin the flavor and mood of
the game by referencing some MODERN DAY thing in their description.
#  
SURVEY
The survey command causes your character to scan the horizon for 
prominent features. Things like campfires, and tall spires will show up 
after you type survey and be assigned a direction and distance.

Survey is important in scanning for dragons searching for prey as they
circle above...or for your friend flying in.  

See Also: Wilderness, Dragons
#
"LOOK AROUND"
The look around command is usable only in wilderness areas. It functions 
to redisplay the ascii map you see upon entering a wilderness room.

See Also: Look, Wilderness
#
BREATH
Breath literally indicates how much oxygen you have to work with.  Breath
differs from movement in that it indicates how much air you are getting in
proportion to how fast your moving.  The faster you move, the more oxygen
you require, at some critical point your muscles will be consuming more
oxygen than you are able to take in.  If this happens your breath will
reach 0, and you will have to slow down. Note that breath regenerates
much faster than movement.  

Mounts will allow you to move faster as horses and the such have very large
lungs and are built for moving quickly.  If you move to fast and run totally
out of breath you will fall over and do yourself damage.

SEE ALSO: MOUNTING PROMPT
#
FLY

To fly you must MOUNT a beast that can fly first.  In Medievia for the most
part the only flying mounts are DRAGONS. Then all you do to lift off is type
FLY.  This will make you and your beast burst up and cirle overhead. 
Everyone around will see you lift off.  To fly in a certain direction type
fly dir like fly n fly south fly e etc.  Everyone in the area will see you
and your beast change direction.  When flying people will see you come into
view and exit the view over the horizon.  When players type SURVEY they will
see you also.

To stop flying in a direction and start circling in place type fly with no
direction.

Once you are flying in a direction you move automagically.  The beast keeps
heading in that direction until you change direction or LAND.  

As you fly or circle your mounts MOVEMENT are used up, if it gets very low it
will attempt to land by itself...if it cannot find a suitable place to land
you may crashland.  MOVEMENT points are NOT replenished when flying..you
must land your mount and have it rest.

SEE ALSO: dragons, land, flying, mounting, movemen,t survey
#
LAND
To land your mount you must be over a suitable area, just type LAND.  A
suitable area means normal things...no water, no lava etc..not in a city
directly...  

SEE ALSO: FLYING, FLY, MOUNT
#
FLYING
In Medievia you may see people FLYING!  Yes flying is the FASTEST way to
traverse the large world of medievia.  
See Also: FLY, LAND, MOUNT
#
MOUNT MOUNTING MOUNTS
As you wander the lands of Medievia, you will notice a couple off things, 
1. Medievia is BIG!  2. You are not.  In order to compensate for this 
disparity, you may want to get yourself a mount.  Mounts come in a 
variety of forms, the most common being a horse.  The most obvious 
advantage to having a mount, is the ability to move farther, faster. 
Mounts may be purchased at a stable, or found wandering in the wilderness. 
In order to mount an animal you have deemed as suitable for this purpose 
simply type <mount> <animal> eg. <mount> <horse>. To dismount type 
<dismount>.  

!!!REMEMBER!!! :  When camping...if you want your mount around when you camp
and quit you MUST be mounted when you quit.

See Also: BREATH, STAMINA, FLYING
#
MEDLINK LINK
Medlink is the primary social gathering place in Medievia.  In Medlink
you will find many interesting places to explore, including a full service
casino.  In order to enter Medlink, simply tpye <link>. In order to 
return to Medievia, type <link> again.  Also in Medlink you will be able to
gossip etc. If you just want to hang out with your friends, or 
kill time in an interesting room, Medlink is the place for you.
#
TRACK 

Thief Only

Thieves have the ability to track other players.  To try and track
a player simply type <track> <player name> Once you do this you will be 
given information on your quarries wherabouts in every new room you 
enter.  Note that tracking is a tedious task, and will slow your movement 
considerably.  In order to stop tracking type <track off>
#
MESSAGE
In order to communicate over the vast lands of Medievia, you must employ
the message command. Syntax: message <paper> <player> For example if I 
want to send a message to Vryce, I would write the message on a piece of
paper, then i would type "message paper Vryce".  This calls a small imp,
capable of traversing great distances, to come and take my paper to Vryce.
Note the farther away the player who you wish to communicate with is, the 
longer it will take for them to get your message.
#
STAMINA
Stamina is a statistic which reflects your ability to move long distances
in the wilderness.  The higher your stamina, the faster you regain your
breath.  Like other statistics such as strength, dexterity etc, stamina 
ranges from 13-18.  Certain classes, like thieves, have a higher base 
stamina than other classes, like mages.
#
APPROVE RENAME

Approve & Rename are Medievia's Name Approval/Rename commands.

Approve (with no arguments to it) - Lists all unapproved players.
Approve (name) - Approves the player with the said name.

Rename (Old Name) (New Name) - Rename
#
MAP MAPS

There is a map room south of the Medievia Adventurers' Guild, which is where 
you entered the game as a new character.  You can also buy maps to carry 
with you at the Adventurers' Guild.

See Also: SHOP, WILDERNESS

If you are seeking help on the ascii map you have seen, type HELP WILDERNESS
#
RULES RULE

Two primary rules exist in Medievia.

1) Don't piss off Shalafi
2) Don't be an asshole

See Also: Medievia_Faq
#
TWEAK
TWEAK code is new and unique to mudding in many ways. When an object is 
PLACED ON A MOB or IN A ROOM the object is run through
code that scrambles its stats.  TWEAKING DOES NOT change any of YOUR stuff,
it never will.  It DOES change stuff you will find in ZONES and on MOBS.
SO.... why?  Well we think that all equipment should not be the same.
All Bloodstones should not be the same.  Everyone should not wear the
same stuff.  This will make killing mobs much more fun.  Most things
will not change much, it is an exponential thing.  There is a slight
chance something will change dramtically, it can get better stats than
then best OLDSTAT stuff.  BUT!, yes it is a 50/50 thing, when it is
tweaked it may just as easily become WORSE.  The changing of the stats
is awesome code, we are very proud of it.  It is one thing to change
objects, it is quite another to teach the code WHY objects are what
they are, and teach the code to UNDERSTAND an object's stats.
BUT BUT BUT, what now?  If all objects are a bit different I will feel
the need to cast ID on ALL stuff in every corpse.  It will drive me
MAD.  We are attempting to help here.  We are not sure if we can manage
this BUT we are trying to TEACH the code to GRADE an object compared
to your object of the same type.  Currently it is working with mixed
results.  You will see a --> to the left of an object in a corpse or
on the ground that the code thinks you should take a look at.  This is
radical and complicated code that tries to value the objects.  We use
35 different WEIGHTS and some strange equations, sorta like a chess
engine I wrote many moons ago.  It makes simple assumptions by using
weights we create.  Sorta like saying if somethings WIS is increased
by one its weight is 55000 better and if somethings STR is by 1 it 
will be 175,000 better. Hence we sorta think 1 str is worth 3 wis.
We have weights for all stats in that way, merge that and some cool
code and we will try and VALUE an item for you.  This code is so new
we really cannot know yet if it will even work right.  
Meanwhile, having all objects slightly different AND having the chance
of findinging something incredible on the most common of mobs is GREAT!
Enjoy,
The Development Team.
#
CASINO CASINOS GAMBLE GAMBLING
Feeling LUCKY?  Think you can parlay that gold bar into a FORTUNE?
Well anything is possible at Medievia's casinos, where the idle rich
and the bold newbies meet to test thier luck and skill at games of
chance.  There are currently two casinos in Medievia, the main casino is 
west of Rodenberry Park North, another casino is located on the lower 
decks of the ship Mystara.  The casino is organized as follows:

exit-STAGE-exit                      KEY
      +                          @  Slot Machine
    @@@+@@@                      C  Card Table
    @@@+@@@ Stairs Down          HR Hight Rollers Card Room
    @@@+@@@                      R  Roulette Table
   CCCCCC+RRRRR                  B  Bar
  HR++++++++++++B                $$ ATM
   CCCCCC+RRRRR                  M  Mens Room
     $$+M                        W  Womens Room
   Shop+STAIRS                   F  Fountain                                                                                                                   
Checkin+W
      F

SEE SLOTS POKER ROULETTE
#
"SECRET DOORS" "HIDDEN DOORS" "SEARCH" "SECRET DOOR" "HIDDEN DOOR" 

Most doors in Medievia are perspicuous, and can be found with little effort,
however some doorways do not reveal themselves to standard observation.
Deliberately concealed either by magic, or exquisite masonry, these doors
must be found by using the search command. The search command causes your
character to pause, and focus their attention on the walls of the room.
Characters possessing high wisdom or intelligence, or those who are nimble,
will have an easier time locating secret doors. Those trained in the art of
deception and subterfuge, likewise have an advantage when searching.
If you are in a room, and you suspect such a door may exist, simply type
search. If your search is successful, and the hidden door is unlocked, you
will open the secret door revealing an exit.  If you are unsuccessful, or
no door exists, you will be informed to that affect. Note that if you find a
secret door which is locked, it will only open if you have the appropriate
key in your inventory. The key is not necessary to see the door, only to
open it.  Once you have found the key, go back to the room and search again.
#
SLOTS
All of the slot machines are different, when you enter a room with a slot 
machine use the ODDS command to finde the odds of winning on that 
particular machine, remember the higher the odds the more you can win.  
To play a slot machine use the PULL command, if you win your winnings 
will be dropped on the ground, so make sure to get your coins.  
#
POKER
Poker is a game with an ancient tradition, and a somewhat notorious 
reputation.  Many have chosen poker as an occupation, few however have 
managed to attain continued success at it.  It can howver be a fun and 
evern profitable hobby.  To play poker in Medievia, you must first pick a 
leader who becomes the dealer.  The Medievia poker system allows for many 
different types of poker games. <Cards Command List>  
Dealer Commands                      

Shuffle-Takes the cards and shuffles the deck.
Showdeal(sd)-Deals the cards FACE UP so all can see.
Hidedeal(hd)-deals the cards FACE DOWN so only player can see.
Down deal(dd)-deals the cards FACE DOWN so NO ONE can see.

All deal commands are in the form command#player where #=the number of 
cards dealt.  Note that if "player" is not supplied cards are dealt to 
everyone at the table.

Player Commands

Cards-shows you your cards. Cards a will show everyones cards.
Discard-Causes you to throw away a card eg. discard 7h Qs 10c etc.
Show-turns your cards over so all can see.
ante-ante # will make you drop # coins for the ante.
raise-raise # will make you drop # coins to raise the bet.
fold-will fold your hand for the current game.

Remember poker can result in animosity even between good friends. It is 
against casino rules to kill other players, so if you have a dispute that 
cannot be settled verbally please take it out of the casino.
#
ROULETTE

Roulette is not currently available.
#
AGE

When you start the game you will be 17 years old, a young adventurer. As 
time passes in Medievia, you will age. The process of aging will have 
some effects on your character's statistics. At first you will still be 
growing, and this growth will be reflected in slight increases in your 
hitpoints, mana, and movement, as well as in the speed with which you 
recover from long marches, and injury. Life is good, and the world seems 
full of possibilities. Unfortunately, as the growth subsides the decline 
begins. The years of battle begin to carve thier mark on your character's 
vital statistics; the spring leaves your step, the hertasi bolts seem to 
hurt more than they used to, and you wonder if the gutters on the roof of 
your house need cleaning... The only thing that seems to defy old age is 
your mystical energy, or mana. Mana continues to increase throughout your 
life, and your ability to recover this mana also increases. Once you reach 
the age of 80 the whole process stops, the God Vryce has seen fit to reward 
your years of struggle, and you will no longer age. You vaguely remember
that shorts with dark, knee high socks are the height of fasion. 

Remember that the aging process takes place regardless of whether or not 
you are logged on.  This means that if you don't play your character for 
several months, when you return you will find a character older than the 
one you left. There are ways to effect your age, the most common being the 
use of equipment which magically alters your age. It is also rumored that age 
can be reduced through the special magic of eggs. SEE EGGS
# 
UNDEAD DEATH DYING DEAD    


	Medievia can be a dangerous place, and at times death is all but 
unavoidable.  Every character has a certain number of hitpoints, these 
hitpoints determine the ammount of damage you can sustain before you 
die.  If the damage you take is equal to your hitpoints you will loose 
consciousness, if the number of hitpoints you have becomes -11 you will 
find yourself in the somewhat unfortunate position of being dead. Until 
you reach level five, this won't make much of a difference, the Gods will 
take pity on you and restore you to your mortal state.  Once you reach 
level five, it is up to you to win back your life.  

	There are several ways in which death may be overcome:  
The most common of these being the transformation of your dead body into 
that of an undead corpse.  This transformation is effected by a mysterious 
necromancer who delights in the aquisition of souls.  Your undead corpse, 
souless and bereft of normal mortal abilities, has two options in order to 
regain it's soul and it's mortal life. 

The first option is to go to the highest point in Medievia or Trellor, 
wait a predetermined ammount of time, and then type "pray".  Other characters 
aware of the trials facing a new corpse may have posted directions to these 
high points on the bulletin boards in Medievia and Trellor.  The ammount of 
time an undead corpse has to wait before it's prayers will be answered is 
determined by the number of other players killed by that character.  
Typing "score" will tell you the ammount of time you will remain dead 
for. The base time you will have wait is 10 minutes of real time, as the 
number of player kills you have goes up, so too does the ammount of time you 



must wait. For those players who delight in the murder of thier peers this 
ammount of time may become prohibitive, but fear not, there is another option.
Kill the necromancer and you will regain your soul!  This is not such a simple
task as the necromancer can be very difficult to find, often his loacation will 
be disclosed on the gossip channel by fearful monsters. Once you have found 
the necromancer, kill him to become alive.  The most expedient way to regain 
your life is to be resurrected by a powerful cleric.  The resurection must be 
performed before the necromancer completes his hideous ritual, once you 
become an undead corpse you may not be resurrected. Once you become a 
corpse you will loose all your no rent items, (potions, orbs, wands etc), 
you will not, however, loose any of your rentable items, these items will 
reappear in your inventory once you become alive.  If you are resurrected 
prior to becoming a corpse you will loose nothing.  The only exception 
being for those who are kill in a chaotic area, if that happens you stand 
a good chance of being looted.  SEE RESURRECT  PK_FAQ     
#
ALIGNMENT ALIGN
Alignment refers to the general moral status of both corporal and 
inanimate matter. You have an alignment, monsters have an alignment, and 
many items in Medievia also have an alignment. Alignment is a continuum, 
running from pure goodness(+1000) to pure evil,(-1000), with pure 
neutrality lying in the middle (0). A character's alignment will 
change to reflect the types of activities he/she engages in. 
A character that spends most of thier time killing janitors, poor 
innocent souls with a good alignment, will slowly become evil.  However a 
character spending the bulk of thier time battling wraiths, evil 
malevolent creatures, will slowly become good.  Similarly one who divides 
thier time more or less equally between these two types of behavior, will 
remain neutral.  Since many magical items in Medievia also have an 
alignment, you will only be able to use those items which are aligned 
closely to yourself.  In other words an evil character will not be able 
to use a good item, and a good character will not be able to use an evil 
item.  Items in Medievia of this nature are referred to as anti-evil, and 
anti-good respectively.  Often a neutral character will be able to use 
both of these types of equipment, however there are some items which are 
so strongly aligned that they attain an anti-good/anti-neutral or an anti- 
evil/anti-neutral rating. If you are equipped with an anti-good item, and 
continue to perform acts of a good nature, you may be "ZAPPED" by that 
item, and forced to drop it.  It is a good idea therefore to keep an 
eye on your alignment, lest you loose your sword during a fight.  
Remember that if you are zapped, you must get your item, or risk losing 
it altogether.  
#
"SAVING THROW" "SAVING THROWS" "SAVING SPELL" "SAVING SPELLS" SAVES

  At various times during the game, something "special" will effect, or
attempt to effect your character.  Things such as spells being cast at you,
poisonous snakes biting you, players using wands on you, etc.  In these
special cases, your character is allowed a SAVING THROW.  There are 5 kinds
of saving throws: paralysation, rods, petrification, breath weapons, and
spells.  A successful save means you either avoid the effect entirely or
the damage recieved is reduced.  Since saving throws vs spells are the 
most common, that will be used as an example to explain the function of 
saves.
  Example: A character is fighting a spell casting monster.  The monster
casts a lightning bolt at the character.  The character is allowed a saving
throw vs spells in order to take less damage from the lightning bolt.
First, the game finds the character's base save, determined by his level
and class.  Assume this number is a 14.  Next, the game looks to see if
the character is wearing and equipment which affects saves vs spells. He's
wearing an amulet which is -2 SAVING_SPELL and a ring which is -3
SAVING_SPELL.  These modifiers are added up, resulting in a -5.  This total
is then added to the character's base save of 14, resulting in a 9 (14+(-5)).
Now the game rolls a 20 sided die, if the number is higher than 9, the
character "makes his save" and less damage from the lightning bolt is taken.
A die roll of 1 always fails the save and a 20 always makes the save.
  As stated in the above example, saving throws of all five types are
based on the level and class of the character.

Any saving throw modifier that is negative benefits the player.
SAVING_SPELL by -3 is GOOD, SAVING_SPELL by 1 is BAD.
#
EARTHQUAKE QUAKE

  Medievia is going through a very violent geological time period as of
late.  Perhaps it is because of the uprising in the CATACOMBS or maybe
it is just natural, but earthquakes have rocked medievia and are predicted
by Vryce to continue for quite some time.  Earthquakes are very dangerous
and you should make sure that you understand them.  They happen sometimes
6 times a REAL day and can last up to 85 real seconds.  When you feel
one starting SIT DOWN.  If you are sitting you will take less damage.
Also, if you are OUTSIDE and OR FLYING you will take less damage.
If it is high on the rictor scale, and semi local to you you can loose
enough hitpoints to DIE no matter how many hitpoints you started with.  YES 
DIE. During even a fairly MILD quake fighting may cease and formations may
break up.  Even the monsters of medievia hate these quakes.
Is it ALL BAD?  Hell no!  Monsters, not being as BRIGHT as you, will sustain
much more damage.  In fact after a big quake, consider it a FREE FOR ALL as
monsters will be hurting.  Quakes are an interesting feature of Medievia,
you may FALL down stairs...drop stuff...fall down....  The code to create
an Earthquake is very complex, so as to make them as realistic as possible.
Some of the quake equations Vryce has designed use 8 variables and 3 over-
laying graphs.  .....Did the earth just move?  JUST KIDDING!  YES! We WILL
have just enough fake quakes to drive you banannas... Fake quakes are 
USUALLY pretty short in duration and not very violent at all.
The last Hint I will give you here is IF A QUAKE IS HAPPENING DO NOT TRY AND
MOVE!  You WILL get hurt.  Vryce hopes to figure out the source of this
new threat to medevites and stop the quakes...he will do his best.
#
CATACOMB EGG EGGS CATACOMBS

  The Catacombs are a subterrainian network of caverns and tunnels occupied
by thousands of the most deadly creatures Medievia has ever seen.  The 
governing bodies of the City of Medievia are prepaired to offer great 
treasures to those brave adventurers who will protect the citizens and 
destroy this threat.  Scattered throughout the two thousand rooms that make
up the Catacombs are large eggs of unknown origin.  By collecting these eggs,
you prove to the government that you are indead contributing to an honorable
cause.  
  Once you have gathered the eggs and have successfulling returned to 
Medievia, you can hand them in to Vryce's adviser.  The Wizard is stationed
on the second level of Castle Medievia, in a room off of the Hall of Statues.
The Wizard can provide with the most recent information concerning the 
war within the Catacombs.  

Look at the sign in the Wizard's room for the most up to date list of 
commands.

'fill'  - deposits the eggs from your inventory to the wizard
'ask'   - obtains your current total of eggs deposited
'where' - gives you the current location of the entrance to the Catacombs
'offer' - to obtain a reward, you must offer a certain amount of eggs
#
GREP

Syntax: grep <string> command

Similar to the Unix command.  You can grep for any string within the output 
of certain commands. 

Examples:
 
  grep <player name> who
  grep catacombs who
  grep <zone name> listzone
  grep <player name> clanwho
#
FAQS FAQ
        M       E       D       I       E       V       I       A
                                 FAQS

        PK_FAQ                   REALESTATE_FAQ          QUEST_FAQ
        CLAN_FAQ                 MEDIEVIA_FAQ

#
REALESTATE_FAQ

The Medievia Frequently Asked Questions(FAQ) on Real Estate.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE: (ALL PRICES ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE)
 
Q: How do I buy a house?
A: Announcements of house auctions are regularly posted on the bulletin
board.
 
Q: How much does a house cost?
A: Auctions start at 100 million coins and can go up to 250 million or more.
 
Q: How do I buy a clanhall?
A: Any leader of a clan can purchase a clanhall.  This will be a room
   in one of the major cities around the world.  Its purpose is to
   provide a secure environment for all members of the clan to use.
   Clan members, and ONLY clan members may have a gohome set up to their
   clanhall; the cost is the same as a gohome to a house.  The prices for
   clanhalls and added features are listed below.
   NOTE: The clanhall is the property of the State, not the Clan.  Therefore,
         a character may NOT sell his or her clanhall when they no longer
         wish to use it.  All rooms in the clanhall are repossesed by the
         State and no money is given in return.
 
Q: What is a GOHOME?
A: Gohome is a ability that lets you gohome to your house. You do not
need to own a house to have the gohome ability. You can get your gohome
ability to your clanhall or to someone elses house if they allow you, and
in the case of clanhalls, if you're a member of the clan.
Once you have gohome, you do not have to rent anymore and you can quit at
your home with out any loss of items.
 
Q: What the the prices for real estate?
 
A:
  Clan Halls                          | 300 million gold coins
  Extra room in Clanhall              | 200 million gold coins
  (Max of 2 extra rooms may be added) |
  Extra rooms for house               | 100 million gold coins
  (Max of 4 extra rooms may be added) |
  Gohome to Clanhall or House         | 50 million gold coins
  Change gohome to another room       | 10 million gold coins
  Exits to Atm,Lockers,Post           | 50 million gold coins
  Flags (water,godproof,etc.)         | Free
 
Q : Can I get mobs or items loaded into my house?
A: At the moment, you can not get items or mobiles loaded in to your home.
 
Q: Who do I contact to buy a house or a gohome?
A: To buy a house or a gohome or any other real estate related manner,
   contact Lena.
 
Q: If I buy a gohome and I change clans or buy a room in someones house,
   do I have to pay for another gohome?
A: The cost to have your gohome moved to a new location is 10 million gold.

Q: Can I have more than 1 gohome?
A: Only one gohome per player.
#
QUEST

Quests are a sort of game within the game added for your enjoyment. They 
may involve skill, intelligence and test your knowledge of the game. Or 
they may be strictly for fun and require no more than your ability to 
find objects randomly placed throughout the mud. For details on various 
typs of quests, see the QUEST_FAQ.

Many of the quests award quest points as the prize.  Quest points can be 
traded in at the Quest Shop for valuable items not obtainable any other way. 

See also: QUEST_FAQ QUEST SHOP
#
"QUEST SHOP"

The Quest Shop is where you can turn in quest points for valuable items 
found no where else. Quest points are earned from wining the various 
quests held from time to time on the mud. 

The shop is located across the street from the bank on Enterprise in 
Medievia. Inside is a board which lists all the available items and the 
number of points required to purchase them. Type look board to see the 
list. Stats for each item can be seen by typing look #,  where # is the 
number of the item.

See also: QUEST, QUEST POINT, QUEST_FAQ
#
"QUEST POINT"

Quest points are awarded by wining one of the various quests held on the 
mud. They can be redeemed for valuable prizes at the quest shop.

See also: QUEST SHOP, QUEST, QUEST_FAQ
#
QUEST_FAQ "PK QUEST" "RACE QUEST" "CLUE QUEST" 
 
The theory of the Quest
-----------------------
Questing is not just for fun, fame and glory, but also a way to gain
valuable quest points. After you accumulate enough quest points you can
purchase special items. For a list of items and their prices go the Quest 
Shop (2 north from the bank (atm) machine) in Medievia and 'look board'.

Types of quests
---------------
There are currently 3 types of quests that are held regularly, and others 
which are more sporadic. These spontaneous quests are run solely at the 
discretion, and bound only by the limits of the imagination of the god 
running them. The rules are provided at the time, and there usually is 
no prior announcement. Information and rules for the set, regularly run 
quests follow. 

NOTE: "Regularly run" in this case, means when a Quest God has the time 
and the inclination to run a quest. We normally have at least one, if not 
all three run daily at various times.  Be warned.. NEVER harass, beg, 
plead, spam or make a pest of yourself to get a God to run a quest! It 
could be FATAL to your existance. :)

RACE QUEST
----------- 
Race quests are simple to participate in. The Quest God randomly 
teleports to a room in Medievia or Trellor, and then announces (on the 
quest channel) the name of the room they are in. Examples:

Medievia : The Mage's Guild
          or
Trellor : Entrance to the Temple of Trellor

If your know where the announced room is located, run there as quickly as 
you can, and then smile at the Quest God.  Your smile triggers an 
automated tracking script which keeps score.  So if you run in a room and 
see : Asskicker is here., your response should be : smile Asskicker.

Race Quest Scoring
------------------
The first five people to smile at each location receive game points:
First person to smile at me   : 10 points
Second person  to smile at me : 6 points
Third person to smile at me   : 5 points
Fourth person to smile at me  : 4 points
Fifth person to smile at me   : 3 points

The first 3 people to reach 100 points win. 

Currently, the prizes are :
1st place : 3 Quest points 
2nd place : 2 Quest points 
3rd place : 1 Quest point 

Currently, you are allowed to summon your friends to assist them in racing.
Also, if the Quest God teleports to a Player Kill zone (NPK or CPK), be 
forewarned you may find other questers daggers in your back! Killing in 
these zones is legal whether a quest is running or not.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLAYER KILL (PK) QUESTS
-----------------------
Basically you enter the arena and kill people. Quest God Asskicker runs 
two versions of pk quests. One is for all players regardless of total 
levels, the other being for single classers level 14-31.

How to Quest
------------
 - To enter this quest you : tell Asskicker pie
 - You are then teleported to the arena entry room and restored (your hit 
   points, mana and moves all brought to maximum).
 - From the entry room, you are free to roam the arena attacking the 
   other players at will. 
 - If you are killed, you end up in the trash pile where you can begin 
   the process all over again by sending a tell to Asskicker of "pie".

PK Quest Rules & Scoring
------------------------
 - Once you enter the quest you cannot recall or be summoned out. If this
   happens you are barred from re-entering the quest until the next time 
   it is run.
 - Your kills are not added to your regular game play PK talley.
 - This is an ongoing quest with scores being saved from previous quests, 
   and continues until someone reaches 100%.
 - Scoring is based upon your level AND the level of your kill. 
 - If a high level kills a low level, he does not receive many points. 
 - If a low level kills a high level, he receives a lot of points. 
 - A +70 point bonus for killing a player 7 or more levels higher than 
   yourself.
 - A -50 point penalty for killing someone 7 or more levels below 
   yourself. 
 - A minimum of 15 points is always awarded for a kill.
 - You lose 10% of your score each time you die.
 - Grouping with other players IS allowed.

Prizes
------
Prizes are at the discretion of the Quest God.  Usually one quest 
point per number of games it took to declare a winner, is awarded 
to the first person who reaches a score of 100%. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SIGN QUEST 
----------
The objective of this Quest is to find the secret word which opens the quest 
chest where the prize waits.  The location of the quest chest will be 
written on the clues you find.  (Usually on the Mystra, the ship that 
travels between the continents) 

How to Play
----------- 
 - To find the secret name of the chest you have to find quest clues.  
 - An identical set of clues is dropped on both continents. When you 
   "look at clue" it will tell you the secret name of another clue. 
 - Using this information allows you to see the actual "hint" hidden in 
   the clue, which is usually a part of a phrase that will help you figure 
   out the secret name of the quest chest. Sometimes the actual hint will 
   be letters used in the word of the chest chest. You must wander 
   around until you find all the clues and get the secret word.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Here is an example of how it works:
   1) You look at the first clue which says "1111".   
   2) You find the second clue which says "2222" you "look 1111" to check 
      if it's the secret name of the clue but it doesn't work.    
   3) Your third clue says "3333", you check if "2222" is the secret name
      of the clue but it dosn't work, then then you check "1111", it 
      works! The clue it gives is "QUEST".   
   4) You go back to the second clue and try "3333", it works and the clue 
      it gives you is "OF THE"   
   5) You go to the first clue and try "2222" and it works giving you "GOD" 
   6) You realize the phrase is "GOD OF THE QUEST".    
   7) You go to the chest and try "get all Asskicker" nothing happens. Then 	
      you try "get all Ugadal", and you get your prize!  

PRIZES
------
Current prize for solving the clue quest:
3 Quest points and 20 million in gold.

See also: QUEST SHOP, QUEST POINT
#
CLAN_FAQ
 
The Medievia Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) on Clans
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.                               .                                    .
Q: What is a clan?
A: A clan by definition is a group united by a common interest or common
characteristics.  Clans in Medievia are very much the same way. Clans are
groups of up to 50 players which help each other out and try to assist
each other whenever possible.
.                               .                                    .
Q: What are the benefits of joining a clan?
A: When you join a clan, you gain many benefits. When you are in a clan,
you become much stronger because if someone insults you, they insult your
clan. When you join a clan, you gain the friendship of your other clan
members. Clans usually trade items and gold between themselves and help
out their fellow clan members when they are in trouble. Clans also have
their own talk channel (CLANTALK) where they can discuss clan related
things or just chat with one another.
.                               .                                    .
Q: How do I join a clan?
A: To get a full list of clans, use the showclans command. It will give
you a list of all the current clans and the names of their leaders. To
join a clan, the leader must enroll you in the clan. If you wish to join
a specific clan, talk to the leader and ask them if you can join. If they
say no, do not pester them any further.
.                               .                                    .
Q: How do I leave a clan?
A: Ask the clan leader to remove you or you can ask a level 33 or higher god.
.                               .                                    .
Q: How do I start my own clan?
A: Starting a new clan costs $75 million gold coins. Ask a level 34 or
higher god if you want to start a clan. Once your clan is made, you will
be the leader and you can enroll and remove players as you wish.
.                               .                                    .
Q: What are other clan related commands?
A:
 CLANWHERE, shows where all your clan members are at the moment.
 CLANWHO, shows who is online from a clan. 
 SHOWCLANS, shows a list of clans and leaders
 SHOWCLANS <Clan Number #> Gives you a list of clan members for a clan.
 CLANTALK, Clan talk channel.
 ** Must be in a Bank to use the following commands **
 BALANCE CLAN, shows the balance, in gold pieces, of the clan's bank
 DEPOSITE CLAN <amount>, deposites gold into the clan's bank account
 WITHDRAW CLAN <amount>, withdraws gold from the clan's bank account
.                               .                                    .
 
Q: What are some things comming up in the future for clans?
A: In the future, clans will have their own cutter ships in which they
will sail the seas with to other islands. They will be able to battle
other clans in their ships with cannons. Clans will be able to buy sails
and better cannons to improve their ships.  Clans will also be able to
gather eggs in the catacombs and use them to buy items for their clans.
.                               .                                    .
 
 
Q: What is a clan item?
.                               .                       .
A: Every clan in Medievia can have one clan item. A clan item is an item
currently in the game which a clan can have duplicated to a name that they
pick. For the members of the clan to obtain a copy of the clan item, they
must allready have the normal item eqivlent of the clan item and one
million coins for an exchange fee. Any level 33 or higher god can exchange
the "regular" version of the specific clan item for the specially named
version. Once a clan item has been decided on and the item has been put into
the database, the clan item can not be changed. In order to make a clan
item for your clan, please contact Shalafi.
 
See Also: CLANS
 
#
MULTICLASS_FAQ
 
The Medievia Frequently Asked Questions(FAQ) on Multiclass.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.                               .                                    .
Q: What is Multiclass?
A: Once you have reached to level 31 of your class, you can not level any
further in that class. You have two choices from there, you can stay at
31 level or you can Multiclass. Once you multiclass, you are set back to
level one of your new class and your total levels number increases.
.                               .                                    .
Q: How do I Multiclass?
A: When you have reached level 31, in order to multiclass, you have to go
to the High Point of Medievia and push the button. Once you push the
button, you will be prompted for your new class.
.                               .                                    .
Q: What do I loose and gain from multiclassing?
A: Once you multiclass, your Hit Points, Mana Points and your movement
points are set back to level one but you keep all the abilities from your
prior class. So if you were a warrior and you multiclassed into a mage,
you would still have bash, trip and all your other warrior skills. But if
you are a mage or a cleric and you multiclass in to something else, you
can not use your spells from your previous class until you reach the
level of the spell. An example of this would be if you were a mage and
you multiclassed into a thief, you would not be able to use lightning
bolt (level 7 spell) until you reached level 7 on your thief.
.                               .                                    .
Q: Will I be able to use my level restricted equipment on my new character?
A: You will not be able to use level restricted equipment until you
reach the restricted level. You would not be able to use your level 27
equipment until you reached level 27 in your new class.
.                               .                                    .
Q: What happens when I finish all four classes?
A: Well you have won the game!! What else more could you want??
.                               .                                    .
Q: Will I keep all my equipment, bank account and home once I multiclass?
A: You will keep all your money and equipment and your home.
.                               .                                    .
#
PK_FAQ PK CPK NPK "PLAYER KILL" "PLAYER KILLING"
  
The Medievia Frequently Asked Questions(FAQ) on Player Killing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.                               .                                    .
Q: What is player killing?
A: Some zones in Medievia allow player killing, that means that in these
zones you can attack other players and kill them. Before you enter a
player killing zone, you will be asked by the code weather you want to
enter or not. There are two types of player killing areas. CPK, Chaotic
Player killing zones and NPK, Neutral Player killing zones.
.                               .                                    .
Q: What are some of the Player Killing Zones?
A: Medievia has many player killing zones that you can enter, Mahn-tor,
Thanos, The Githyanki, Horneg's Keep, Vale, Lake Contnea, The Lost City of
Atlantis, The Fire Giants Keep, Asnor Mountains and Bloodstone.
.                               .                                    .
Q: What is the difference between CPK and NPK areas?
A: There are two major differences between NPK and CPK areas. When you get
killed in a NPK area by another player you do not suffer "real" death.
Once you are killed, you are transported to the Medievia trash dump where
you can resume adventuring again. If you get killed by another player in a
CPK zone, you will suffer real death and loose experience points. Your
corpse might also be looted by other players and your items stolen from
you.  There are also two major differences when it comes to killing other
players in CPK and NPK zones. When you kill someone in a NPK, you do NOT
gain any experience.  If you kill someone in a CPK zone, you do get
experience for your kill and you have the chance of looting the other
player.  In CPK zones, and ONLY CPK zones, if you are killed by other mob,
there is a chance that will be looted by players walking by.
.                               .                                    .
Q: What are the ramifcations for player killing?
A: Every time you kill a player in a NPK or CPK zone, you get one
player kill added to your PK counter. For every PK point you have, you will
have to wait an extra ten minutes at the high point before praying. Every
time you regain your life at the high point, your PK counter is decreased
by one.
.                               .                                    .
Q: What are the rules for player killing?
A: There are three rules for player killing.
     1) You CAN NOT attack player in lawful zones.
     2) You CAN NOT attack anyone in your formation.
        This includes luring others into a pk zone under false pretences
                      -- In Short, NO TRICKS --
     3) If a player is fighting a mob in an NPK zone, you can not attack them
        while they are fighting or assist the mob in ANY way.
        -IF YOU ANY VIOLATE THESE RULES, YOU COULD BE DELETED-
.                               .                                    .
Q: What do I do if I die or get looted?
A: If you get looted or killed in a CPK zone, do not complain or
whine.  You knew what could happen to you when you entered and accepted
the risks.
If you get looted in an NPK zone, by all means, WHINE.  We the Gods want
to know if another player is breaking the rules.
.                               .                                    .
Q: What is the arena?
A: The arena is a place where players can come duel each other. There are
player killing games often held in the arena by the quest gods which you
can join. The arena in a NPK area EXCEPT that if you kill someone in the
arena, your PK counter does not increase.
.                               .                                    .
#
MEDIEVIA_FAQ 
 
Frequently Asked Questions regarding Policy and Interaction in Medievia Mud
---------- ----- --------- --------- ------ --- ----------- -- -------- ---
o Can I use Tintin or other clients and scripts?
- Yes.  However, we DO NOT allow "triggers" that autoattack players or
  mobs; this includes dispelling and the like.
o The game legitimately crashed, and I lost levels, and equipment, can I be
  reimbursed for this?
- Usually yes, but under some circumstances the gods may decide not to, their
  decisions are final on all things. But in most cases, a god will do as much
  as he or she can to help you get back on your feet.
o When will the next zone be installed?
- Don't ask this question. A lot of people are working on projects at this
  time, and you can be sure that as soon as one is installed, you will know
  about it.
o Can I play more than one character at once?
- No. This includes dropping link and logging in with another character.
  We WILL be severe if we find you doing this.
o Can I make a stoarage character?
- No. Storage characters are not allowed.
o Why won't the gods answer my prayers?
- Here's a common one you all need to know the answer to. The Gods are ALWAYS
  being deluged with questions and commentary. So your prayer may get lost in
  the text flying by on the screen. We're sorry if we miss you, but don't be
  a pest and re-ask your question every 10 seconds. If it's something that
  cannot wait, seek another player's help first. *ALWAYS* try to get a
  player's help before going to a god. Also, we can't stress enough to pray
  if it's IMPORTANT only! We have a lot of things to do (work on zones, work
  on a quest for the players), and we do not need to see "help, I lost my
  corpse", and "pray for food and water". Please, ASK THE PLAYERS! 
  Practicallyall of them will be willing to help you.
o I'm using the gossip channel, but the gods don't pay attention to me, why?
- The gods use the gossip channel for the same reason you do, to
  chit-chat. We do not answer requests on that channel. PRAY to the gods
  if it's VERY important.
o What level do I have to be to use the gossip channel?
- Level 6, and yes we know this is higher than most muds require, but it is
  quite easy to get to level 6 on Medievia, so don't fret it.
o Where are some of the more important areas, such as the bank/ATM, the hotel
  and the U-Store-It locker room facility?
- All of these areas are easy to find, Aramingo Ave, which lies 2 squares
  south of Castle Square (The recall spot) is where all the shops are at,
  such as the bakery, grocery, weaponsmith, armory, etc. U-Store-It is also
  located on Aramingo Ave. EXPLORE, you have to learn to know the land to
  play here. The Hotel is located on Enterprise Ave, that is also where the
  Bank/ATM is located. That's another 2 squares south from Aramingo Ave.
o A player stole from me, looted my corpse, or stole my kill, can I be
  reimbursed, or can action be taken against this player?
- It's important for you to tell a god about this. They will transfer both
  you and the perpetrator to their office to deal with this one on one.
o What happened to recall, and save and quit?
- They've been removed, you must go to the magic shop and buy potions of
  recall, or learn "word of recall" as a spell, and you must rent at the
  hotel to save your equipment. Magic items cannot be saved, so put them in
  a locker. Containers can't be put in the locker, so rent them, or sell them
  before leaving.
o What are some of the reasons why the system might be down, or have crashed?
- We are constantly working on bugs in the system, and believe we have gotten
  the majority of them worked out, but you may find the system reset by a god
  to start up some new zone, or bring in new mobiles or objects that have
  been created. Crashes will occur, we can't avoid it, all muds crash, bear
  with it, it just happens. You may also find the mud down periodically so
  that we can implement a new zone, or make major modifications to some part
  of the code, which will require the mud to be down for a little while. But
  for the most part, we're never down long.
o Can I PK (Player Kill)?
- Sure can!  We have several areas for player killing.  And as an added 
  bonus, we have two types of player killing.  One is a 'neutral' zone where
  you can kill people, but you and the person you killed doesn't lose any
  experience or equipment.  These zones are Horneg's Castle, the Githyanki,
  the Vale, Thanos, the Pirate Ship, and Bloodstone.  And then there's the
  'chaotic' zone, where players kill, lose exp and equipment, and get really
  pissed off  :).  Those zones are The Fire Giants Keep, Mahn-Tor, and
  Bloodstone.  See HELP PK for more information.
o Corpse looting?
- If you can get away with it, fine.  But if you're in a group, a player
  probably won't try to do it, lest his butt get kicked. You can only steal
  from dead players in chaotic player killing areas.  See HELP PK for 
  more info.
o If a player gets disarmed or drops some eq, can I grab it?
- The policy on this stands as NO YOU MAY NOT! Just because a player has
  dropped something, doesn't mean he's giving it to you. If someone does this
  to you, notify a god and they will bring you into their office and chat
  what to do with the person. Usually they will just say to give it back, and
  that'll be the end of that. This holds true when players get zapped by eq
  of the wrong alignment and dropping a heavy weapon also.
o What do I do if I see a bug, or have an idea or notice a typo?
- Report it, we have functions for that, type "bug <your message>" to
  report a bug, "idea <message>" to report an idea you have, or "typo <msg>"
  to report a typographical error in the world file.
o Where's the bulletin board?
- The bulletin board is located in the Library. When you get in there, use
  "look at board" to check out what messages are on it. "read 1" will 
  read the first message, and so on. If you want to post a message, go to the
  grocer and buy some paper and a quill. Write down your message on that paper.
  Note that the first line that you print on the paper will be the title of
  your message. Then, when you have it finished, go to the library and "put 
  paper board".
 
#
COMBAT

        M       E       D       I       E       V       I       A
                             COMBAT COMMANDS

        KILL                     FLEE                    CONSIDER
        HIT                      WIMPY                   ASSIST
        MURDER                   AC                      THACO
        CAST                     HITROLL
        SAVING THROW             DAMROLL
#
MOVEMENT MOVE

        M       E       D       I       E       V       I       A
                            MOVEMENT COMMANDS

        Directions:             Combat:                 Other:
         NORTH                   FOLLOW                  EXITS
         EAST                                            AUTOEXIT
         SOUTH                                           REST
         WEST                                            STAND
         UP                                              SLEEP
         DOWN                                            WAKE
         LEAVE
         ENTER
#
CLANS CLAN

        M       E       D       I       E       V       I       A
                              CLAN COMMANDS
                
        Clan Leader:            Clan Member:            Everyone:
         ENROLLCLAN              CLANTALK                SHOWCLAN
         REMOVECLAN              CLANWHERE               CLANWHO

See Also: CLAN_FAQ, ATM
#
INFORMATION

        M       E       D       I       E       V       I       A
                         INFORMATION COMMANDS + KEYWORDS

        Commands:               More help:
         INFO                    WARRIOR                 ATM
         STORY                   THIEF                   LOCKERS
         NEWS                    MAGE                    GUILD
         CREDITS                 CLERIC                  SHOP
         WIZLIST                 SPELLS                  HOMES
         LEVELS                  MULTICLASS              MEDIEVIA
         LISTZONE                ABILITIES               IMMORTAL
                                 PROMPT                  HELP
                                 TRELLOR                 DRAGON CRYSTAL
                                 XP                      CARDS
                                 DEATH                   AGE     
                                 ALIGNMENT
#
COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATE

        M       E       D       I       E       V       I       A
                          COMMUNICATION COMMANDS

        General:                Global:                 Other:
         SAY                     CHANNEL                 PRAY
         TELL                    GOSSIP                  REPORT
         WHISPER                 DISCUSSION              ROOM
         TALK                    QUEST                   AFK
         CLSAY                   SETCOMM                 TICK
         ASAY                    SHOUT                   SOCIAL
         CLANTALK                                        POSE
         ASK                                             EMOTE
#
OBJECT

        M       E       D       I       E       V       I       A
                       OBJECT MANIPULATION COMMANDS

        General:                Equipment:              Other:
         GET                     WEAR                    POUR
         PUT                     WIELD                   FILL
         DROP                    REMOVE                  SACRIFICE
         LOOK                    HOLD                    WRITE
         OPEN                    RECITE                  GIVE
         CLOSE                   QUAFF                   DONATE
         LOCK                    USE
         UNLOCK
         EAT
         DRINK
#
SPECIAL

        M       E       D       I       E       V       I       A
                             SPECIAL COMMANDS

        RENT                    BUG                     BUY
        QUIT                    IDEA                    SELL
        SAVE                    TYPO                    LIST
        PASSWORD                CAMP                    VALUE
        PRACTICE
        TRAIN
#
GENERAL

        M       E       D       I       E       V       I       A
                             GENERAL COMMANDS
                           
        INVENTORY               ORDER                   TIME
        EQUIPMENT               ALIAS                   MUDINFO
        SCORE                   WEATHER                 COLOR
        WHERE                   TAG                     BRIEF
        WHO                     !                       COMPACT
        TITLE

#
PASSWORD

Use this password command to change your password.  We suggest you change
your password often and use new passwords each time.  The Passwords in
Medievia are one way encrypted for your security.

#
POSE

Makes you "strike a pose" based on your class.
#
NORTH SOUTH EAST WEST UP DOWN

To walk in a given direction. 
You can use just the letters N, S, E, W, U & D
#
EXITS AUTOEXIT EXIT

EXITS gives you a list of the obvious exits from your location.  Blocked 
exits, such as closed doors, are not listed until you open them.
AUTOEXIT automatically lists the obvious exits whenever you walk into a room.
#
SLEEP WAKE REST SIT STAND

SLEEP and REST allow a character to regain more hit points, mana, and 
movement per tick than a character who is standing.  When resting, you 
will still be able to see what is happening around you and interact with 
other players, but the regeneration rate is not as high as SLEEP.  If you 
are sleeping, your actions are very limited. 

STAND will return you to normal ready position from SIT or REST and WAKE 
will return you to normal position from SLEEP.

See Also: SLEEP SPELL
#
LEAVE ENTER

If you are indoors, LEAVE will make you use the nearest obvious exit to 
the outside.

If you are outside, ENTER will make you use the nearest obvious exit to 
the indoors.
Important Note: The ENTER command is also used to enter portals and other
                magical gateways which you may find throughout the world.
#
FLEE WIMPY

When fleeing from battle, you will attempt to escape in any random 
direction.  However, there is a chance that you can not escape.  You may
attempt to flee again.

Syntax: wimpy [number between 0-255]

Setting your wimpy at 100, means that you will automatically attempt to flee
when your hit points drop down to 100 or less.  To see what your wimpy is
currently set at, type 'wimpy' with no argument.
#
FOLLOW

Syntax: follow <leader>

FOLLOW is used to create a formation.  To do so, everyone must follow the 
leader.  Once in a formation, you will automatically go where the leader
moves too.

follow <your name>, will remove yourself from a formation.

See also: FORMATION
#
FORMATION FORMATIONS GROUP GROUPS

A FORMATION is a group of 2 to 9 players traveling together, following a
leader.  All members of the formation share EXPERIENCE points equally, 
based on level.  However, if there exists a difference of more than 10 
levels between any two group member, all players will receive less XP and 
the division will be skewed.  XP will only be shared among group members 
who are in the room at the time of the killing blow, regardless of whether 
they were fighting or not.  Gold can be SPLIT equally among the group by 
any member.

To make a formation, a leader must be selected.  All members of the
formation must then FOLLOW the leader.

The leader has formation commands REFORM and UNFORM to position players
within the formation and to remove them.

FREPORT will show stats on all formation members.

FORMTEST will simulate a series of attacks and show you the results.

FORM will show you each members position in the formation.

See also: REFORM, UNFORM, FOLLOW, FREPORT, FORMTEST, FORM, SPLIT
#
REFORM

Syntax: reform <player name> <position>

REFORM allows you to position players around in your formation.  You must
be the leader of the formation to use REFORM.

The available positions within a form are:

  fl  fc  fr      (front left/center/right)
  cl  cc  cr      (center left/center/right)
  bl  bc  br      (back left/center/right)

For more help, type REFORM(enter/return)

See also: FORMATION, UNFORM, FORMTEST, FORM
#
FREPORT

This command shows various stats of all formation members in a quick
readable format.

See also: FORMATION
#
UNFORM

Syntax: unform <player name>

Will remove the player from your formation, even if they are not in the
same room.  You must be the leader of the formation to use UNFORM.

unform <your name>, will unform the whole formation at once.

See also: FORMATION, REFORM, FORM
#
FORMTEST

This is a command that tests your FORMATION.
It fires 150 blanks at your formation and gives you a report of the results.
The results show which formation position was hit, how many times, and the
percentage of hits.

See also: FORMATION, REFORM, FORM
#
SPLIT

Syntax: split <amount>

Equally divides the amount of gold among the group members who are
currently in the room.

See also: FORMATION
#
FORM

Shows you the position of each member in the FORMATION.

See also: FORMATION, REFORM, UNFORM
#
F
TELL 

These commands will tell something to your entire formation, no matter 
where they are.  These commands will also work when you are sleeping.
Shortcut: ;

See also: FORMATION
#
ENROLLCLAN

Syntax: enrollclan <player name>

Clanleader only.

Enrolls the player in your clan.  The player must be in the same room.

** Enrolling a player against their wishes will get you purged and
   your site banned.  No second chances!
#
REMOVECLAN

Syntax: removeclan <player name>

Clanleader only.

Removes the player from your clan.
#
SHOWCLAN

Syntax: showclan [clan number]

Showclan without an argument lists all clans, their leadersname, clan number
and the amount of CATACOMB eggs collected so far.

With an argument, this command lists that clans leader and members.
#
CAMP CAMPING

When your in the wilderness you can make a campsite by using the CAMP
command.  This will create a safe area to QUIT in and make a nice cozy camp
fire to boot.  The camp fire will be able to be seen from afar using the
SURVEY command.  Anyone may make a campsite.  If one already exists you may
use the CAMP command again which will redo the site and put more wood on the
fire.  The campfire will crackle over time and its appearence will reflect
the fire's current status.  Be VERY careful when QUITing as if you are not
at a campsite and not at HOME you will lose everything you have.
Starting a new campsite uses 90% of your moves and 1/2 your hits.  Redoing a
site costs 1/2 your moves.
Note: You may not be killed by other players while in your campsite.

!!!REMEMBER!!! If you want your mount around when you camp and quit you MUST
be mounted when you quit.

#
CLANTALK

Allows you to tell all of your clan members a message. Note that clantalk 
deteriorates over distance, such that if a clan member is too far away, 
they will not hear your clantalk.
# 
CLANWHO

Lists all players, currently logged on, who belong to a clan, and which clan.
#
CLANWHERE

Clan member only.

Shows where your clan members are, worldwide.
#
INVENTORY INV I

Lists all the items that you are currently carrying.  Equipment being worn
and items in containers are not show.
Shortcut: I

See also: EQUIPMENT
#
EQUIPMENT

Lists all the equipment you are wearing and wear it is being worn.
Shortcut: EQ

See also: INVENTORY
#
COLOR

The COLOR command toggles color on and off.  First you must have ANSI color
as a terminal option (VT102 is a terminal option as an example) and have
it turned on.
#
BRIEF

Toggles "brief mode".  When in brief mode, you won't see room descriptions.
Warning: Room descriptions often contain very important information.

See also: COMPACT
#
COMPACT

Toggles "compact mode".  When on, an extra newline will be used after output
to you screen.

See also: BRIEF
#
WHERE

Syntax: where [player/mob]

WHERE will give you the location of a player or mob, if they are currently
in the zone.

If a player's name is passed as an argument, then the room title will be 
returned.
If a mob's name is passed, then "Close By" will be returned.
If no arguments are passed, then the names and locations of all the players
in your zone will be returned.

Note: This command will only search the zone that you are currently in.
#
SCORE

Gives a detailed report on your character's statistics.
Shortcut: SC

See also: REPORT
#
WHO

Lists the people currently in the game. 

Examples:
    who                    lists all players.
    who 10-30              lists all players of levels 10 to 30.
    who -n <player name>   will tell you if the player is online.
    who 5+                 lists all players level 5 and up.
    who 10-                lists all players 10 and under.
    who -z                 lists all players in your zone.
    who -m                 lists all male characters. 
    who -f                 lists all females.
#
TIME

Gives you a list of times including;
   Current real time
   Start time of the MUD
   Current MUD time
#
MUDINFO

Displays various info about the mud; how many rooms, zones, commands,
socials, mobiles and their level breakdown.
#
ALIAS UNALIAS

Syntax: alias
        unalias <alias>

ALIAS will allow you to make up to five of your own shortcut-commands. 

UNALIAS will allow you to remove one of your five aliases.
#
LISTZONE LISTZONES ZONE ZONES

Lists all zones giving; name, lifespan, number of rooms, and kills.

Lifespan        - the number of ticks between zone repops.
Number of rooms - number of rooms in the zone.
Kills           - total number of mobs killed in that zone.
#
WEATHER

Tells you the current weather and a hint as to if it's getting better or 
worse.  Currently, weather only affects the damage done by the mages' 
spells, "LIGHTNING BOLT" and FIREBALL.
#
TITLE

Syntax: title <your new title>

Allows you to change your character's title.
#
TAG TAGGED

Just like the kids game.  Now go tag someone else.
#
CONSIDER

Syntax: consider <monster>

This command will compare your Level with the <monster> level and tell you
your odds of victory.  This commands does not take into account: hit points,
special attacks, or damage.
#
ASSIST 

Syntax: assist <player name>

Assisting a player will cause you to start fighting the same monster the 
player is currently fighting.  
#
KILL HIT MURDER

Syntax: kill <monster name>
        murder <player name>
#
ORDER

Syntax: order <name/followers> <command>

You can only order mobs that are in your formation.  This is done by buying
a pet or charming a mob.
#
!

Repeats the last command typed at the keyboard.
#
SAY TELL WHISPER ASK TALK

These are the most common ways of communicating with other players.

The TELL command works only when your are in Medlink. (SEE MEDLINK LINK)

Syntax: tell <player name> <message>

Tells a message to another player. Using TELL costs you 10 movement 
points.  If you currently have less than 10, you can not use the TELL 
command.
---
Syntax: say <message>

This is like talking aloud.  Everyone in the room will hear what you say.
Shortcut: '
---
Syntax: talk <player name> <message>

Very similar to SAY, but person specific.  Everyone in the room will hear
what you say to that player.  The player you talk too, must also be in the
room.
---
Syntax: whisper/ask <player name> <message>

These commands are a combination of both TELL and SAY.  You may only 
whisper to or ask a player who is in the room.  However, only that person 
will hear what you said.  The other players in the room will see that you 
whispered or asked something to that player, but they will not see the 
message.

See also: CLSAY, ASAY
#
PRAY

Syntax: pray <message>

All gods/heroes of level 31+, which are not AFK, will see your pray.  Use
PRAY if you need help on a problem that lower mortals can not solve.

** Use pray ONLY if you have a serious problem.
#
GOSSIP DISCUSSION QUEST SHOUT CHANNEL SETCOM SETCOMM CHANNELS

Syntax:  setcomm status<enter>
		 shows you the status of your channels (on/off).

		 setcom gossip<enter>
		 toggles gossip on and off.  You may also do this with
		 shout, quest, discuss and the trivia channel.

		 setcom<enter>
		 will guide you through a series of prompts to assist
		 you in turning your channels on or off.

There are currently four channels in Medievia used for global communication.
When you use a channel, everyone who has that channel on will see your
message.  Likewise, you will only see messages on a channel if you have it 
on.  Each channel has specific guidelines, which should be followed.

Syntax: shout/gossip/discussion/quest <message>

The Gossip command is usable only in Medlink.  

Gossip is used for anything you wish everyone in Medlink to hear. Whether 
it be a cryfor help or to tell everyone that you are looking for a group.  
Due to themisuse of this channel, you may only gossip once every 
five minutes.


DISCUSSION is used for various topics, which are determined by the gods.

QUEST is used for the discussion of any quests that are currently being run.

** DISCUSSION and QUEST can only be used when a god has them activated.

SHOUT Causes you character to scream something out, naturally the farther 
away people are from the source of the shout the harder it will be from 
them to hear it.  When you shout something, it does not indicate that you 
are the shouter. Other players would see for example
      
         'Someone shouts, GO BACK THERE ARE BALROGS!'

SETCOMM allows you to turn on/off each of the five channels.

WARNING: Profanity is not allowed on ANY channel!
#
REPORT

Gives a one-line description of your character's stats to everyone
in the room, including your numerical AC and ALIGNMENT.
Shortcut: REP

See also: SCORE
#
TICK

Syntax: tick [number]

Informs the players within the room that you are waiting for 1 tick.  
You may also specify an amount of ticks to wait for, such as TICK 5.
#
ROOM

Syntax: room <message>

The ROOM command is available to levels 15+.  It is like EMOTE, but does not
put your name in front.  Every player in the room will see your message
exactly how it was type.

See also: EMOTE
#
AFK

Syntax: afk [message]

AFK toggles "away from keyboard mode".  When your afk is on, a player who 
TELLs to you will be warned that you are away from your keyboard.  They 
will also see any message you may have entered.
#
EMOTE

Syntax: emote <message>

EMOTE is used to create your own socials.  When you emote something, 
everyone in the room will see your name followed by your message.

See also: ROOM
#
SOCIAL SOCIALS

Syntax: <social name> [player name]

Socials are ways for players to interact with having to talk.  There are 
currently over two hundred socials available in Medievia.  For a current
list type 'socials'.

See also: EMOTE, ROOM
#
INSULT

Syntax: insult <player name>

Will insult a player according to their sex and other characteristics.
#
ASAY

Syntax: asay <message>

Will say something to everyone in the room, which are of the same alignment.

See also: SAY
#
CLSAY

Will say something to everyone in the room, which are of the same class.
#
GET TAKE

Syntax: get <object/all> [container]

Example:
    'get dagger' - move a dagger from the ground into you inventory.     
    'get dagger bag' - move a dagger from a bag into your inventory.
    'get all corpse' - move all items from the corpse into your inventory.

See also: DROP, PUT
#
PUT DROP

DROP will move an item from your inventory to the ground. 

Example:
    'drop dagger'
    'drop all' will drop all the items in your inventory.
    'drop all.potion' will drop all your potions to the ground.

PUT will move items from your inventory to a container.

Example:
    'put dagger bag'
    'put all.food bag' will move all your food into a bag.

See also: GET, TAP
#
LOOK EXAMINE READ

Syntax: look [object/direction]
        look in <container>

LOOK with no arguments will redisplay the room description and list the 
people and objects in the room.
Looking at an object will give you a physical description.
Looking in a container will list its contents.

Note: A corpse is a container.  Therefore, when you kill a mob, you must 
      type 'look in corpse' to see what it was carrying.

See Also: Look Around (type HELP LOOK AROUND)
#
WRITE

To write a note on a paper, you must first have a piece of paper and 
something to write with.  When these items are in your inventory, type
'write paper quill'.  You will then get a text editor.

Note: paper and feather quills can be bought at the Grocer in town.
#
QUAFF POTIONS POTION

Syntax: quaff <potion name/potion>

To use a magical potion, you must have the potion in your inventory.  Then
you must quaff it.
#
RECITE SCROLLS SCROLL

Syntax: recite <scroll> [target]

To use a scroll, you must have the scroll in your inventory.  Target can be 
an object, character or nothing (which may be yourself).
#
USE STAFF STAVES WAND WANDS ORB ORBS

Syntax: use <staff>
        use <wand> <target>

Staffs usually produce an area affect, targeting everyone or everything in
the room.
Wands are target specific, affecting only a single object or person.

Note: Before you can use a staff or wand, you first must be holding it. 
      Many objects which can be used as a staff/wand, will not appear to 
      be one, such as orbs.

See also: HOLD
#
HOLD GRAB

HOLD will move an item from your inventory to your worn equipment.  Many 
objects must be held before they take effect or can be used, such as light
sources and staffs/wands.

See also: WEAR, WIELD, REMOVE, EQUIPMENT
#
WEAR

Moves equipment from your inventory to your worn equipment.  Equipment, 
such as armor, must be worn before if can take effect.  Typing 'wear all'
will attempt to wear all your equipment, including light sources, held 
objects and weapons.

See also: REMOVE, EQUIPMENT, WIELD, HOLD
#
WIELD

Moves a weapon from your inventory to your worn equipment.

See also: REMOVE, EQUIPMENT, WEAR, HOLD
#
REMOVE

REMOVE, will move an item from your worn equipment to your inventory.

See also: EQUIPMENT, WEAR, HOLD, WIELD
#
POUR FILL

Syntax: pour <from container> <to container>
        fill <to container> <from container>

Used to fill or empty liquid containers.

Example:
    'fill waterskin fountain'
#
OPEN CLOSE LOCK UNLOCK

Syntax: open/close/lock/unlock <door name> [direction]

Note: If there are two doors in a room, you need to supply a direction.
#
EAT DRINK SIP TASTE

Syntax: eat <food>
        drink     to drink from a local water source
        drink fountain to drink from fountains
        drink <container> to drink from a specific container
#
GIVE

Syntax: give <object> <person>

Note: To give coins to another player, use the following syntax.
      give <amount> coins <player>
#
SACRIFICE SAC TAP JUNK

Sacrificing an object will remove it from the game.  To sacrifice an object, 
it must be on the ground.  When you TAP an object, you will receive a small
percentage of the items value in gold coins.  If you TAP a corpse, you will
receive XP based on your level.

** Please TAP all unwanted objects or junk that you find on the ground, 
   such as throwing weapons.  Multiple objects in a single room tend to
   lag the MUD.  For convenience, all throwing weapons have the keyword
   'throwing'.  Type 'tap throwing' to sacrifice it.
#
SPELLS SPELL

                           Medievia Spell List
                           ===================

           Magic User                           Cleric


Level  1 - Magic Missile                        Armor
           Ventriloquate        [*]             Cure Light
                                                Cause Light

Level  2 - Detect Magic                         Create Water
           Detect Invisible                     Detect Poison
                                                Continual Light
                                                Faerie Fire

Level  3 - Chill Touch                          Create Food
           Sleep Spell                          Detect Magic
                                                Refresh

Level  4 - Continual Light                      Cure Blind
           Faerie Fire                          Detect Evil
           Invisibility

Level  5 - Burning Hands                        Bless
           Refresh                              Detect Invisible
                                                Know Alignment
                                                Cure Serious
                                                Cause Serious
                                                Sense Death

Level  6 - Locate Object                        Blindness
           Fear                                 Protection from Evil
           Infravision                          Animate Dead         [*]

Level  7 - Shocking Grasp                       Tremor
           Strength                             Sense Life
           Levitate
           Weaken

Level  8 - Blindness                            Summon
           Teleport                             Poison
           Know Alignment

Level  9 - Lightning Bolt                       Cure Critic
           Conjure Elemental                    Remove Poison
                                                Cause Critic
                                                Infravision

Level 10 - Control Weather                      Locate Object
           Identify                             Dispel Evil
           Faerie Fog                           Identify
           Mass Levitation
           Breathe Water

Level 11 - Colour Spray                          Word of Recall
           Dispel Magic
           Shield Room

Level 12 - Enchant Weapon                       Call Lightning
           Curse                                Remove Curse
           Sense Death                          Levitate
                                                Breathe Water

Level 13 - Energy Drain                         Control Weather
           Shield                               Sanctuary
           Chain Lightning                      Flamestrike

Level 14 - Charm Person                         Heal
                                                Faerie Fog

Level 15 - Fireball                             Turn Undead          [*]
           Mass Invisibility                    Hands of Wind
                                                Mass Levitation

Level 16 - Fireshield                           Dispel Magic
           Frost Shards                         Transport

Level 17 - Farsight                             Mass Invisibility
           Map catacombs

Level 18 - Stone Skin                           Drown                [*]
                                                Harm

Level 19 - Ethereal(disabled)                   Gate

Level 20 - Acid Blast                           Sandstorm            [*]
           Wizard Eye

Level 21 - Plague

Level 22 - Scribe                               Fireshield

Level 23 -                                      Demonfire

Level 25 - Shockwave                            Hammer of Faith

Level 26 - Gate                                 Bloodbath

Level 27 -                                      Resurrect

Level 28 -                                      Map catacombs
==========================================================================
[*] = Disabled
#
ARMOR

Usage       : cast armor <victim>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 24 Hours
Level       : Level 1 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5  

Modifies victim's AC by -30.

See also: AC
#
"CURE LIGHT"

Usage       : cast cure light <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 1 cleric
Mana Usage  : 15

This spell cures minor wounds.  The amount healed depends on the 
caster's level.

See also: CURE SERIOUS, CURE CRITIC, HEAL
#
"CAUSE LIGHT"
Usage       : cast cause light <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 1 Cleric 
Mana Usage  : 15

This spell causes minor damage to the victim.  The amount is variable 
but does not depend on the caster's level.

See also: CAUSE SERIOUS, CAUSE CRITIC.
#
"WIZARD EYE"
USAGE       : cast wizard eye
Accumulative: -
Duration    :
Level       : Level 20 mage
Mana Usage  : 200

This spell enables the caster to enlarge the wilderness area that is 
visible too them.  
#
"CREATE WATER"
Usage       : cast create water <drink container>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 2 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5

Expect disastrous results if cast upon a drink container which contains
another liquid than water.  Empty or water containers will be filled
depending on the level of the caster.

Double amount of water will be created if it is raining.

See also: CREATE FOOD
#
"DETECT POISON"
Usage       : cast detect poison (victim | food | drink)
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 2 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5

Cast on food or drinks (drink containers) you will be able to sense if it 
is poisoned.

Cast on a person you will be able to see if that person is poisoned.

See also: REMOVE POISON
#
"CONTINUAL LIGHT"
Usage       : cast continual light
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 4 magic user, level 2 cleric
Mana Usage  : 7 

This spell creates a ball of light which can be held.
#
"FAERIE FIRE"
Usage       : cast faerie fire <victim>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 34 hours
Level       : Level 4 magic user, level 2 cleric
Mana Usage  : 6

Modifies Armor of the victim by 10; making it worse.
#
"CREATE FOOD"
Usage       : cast create food
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 3 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5 

This spell instantly creates an edible magic mushroom.  The mushroom
will fill you for the next 5+level hours, up to a maximum of 24 hours.

See also: CREATE WATER
#
"DETECT MAGIC"
Usage       : cast detect magic
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 5 hours per level
Level       : Level 2 magic user, level 3 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5

This spell will let you see the magical aura surrounding magical
objects.
#
REFRESH
Usage       : cast refresh <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 5 magic user, level 3 cleric
Mana Usage  : 12

Refreshes your movement points.
#
"CURE BLIND"
Usage       : cast cure blind <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : level 4 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5

This spell will cure a person blinded by the BLINDNESS spell.
#
"DETECT EVIL"
Usage       : cast detect evil
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 5 hours per level
Level       : Level 4 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5

Detect evil will enable you to see the red aura surrounding evil
persons and items.
#
BLESS 
Usage       : cast bless <victim or object>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 6 Hours + Level, permanent for objects.
Level       : Level 5 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5 

Bless on a victim will improve the victims saving throw versus spells
by 1, and furthermore improve the hitroll by 5.

Bless on an item currently has no defined action.  It is only possible
to bless non-evil items, and the object blessed may weight no more
than five pounds per level of caster. 
#
"DETECT INVISIBILITY"
Usage       : cast detect invisibility [self]
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 5 hours per level
Level       : Level 2 magic user, level 5 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5

This spell enables you to see invisible items and players.
#
"KNOW ALIGNMENT"
Usage       : cast know alignment <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 8 magic user, level 5 cleric
Mana Usage  : 9

This spell gives the caster the knowledge of the target's alignment.
#
"CURE SERIOUS"
Usage       : cast cure serious <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 5 cleric
Mana Usage  : 17

This spell heals more than CURE LIGHT.  The amount healed depends on 
the caster's level.

See also: CURE LIGHT, CURE CRITIC, HEAL
#
"CAUSE SERIOUS"
Usage       : cast cause serious <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 5 cleric
Mana Usage  : 17

This spell causes more damage than CAUSE LIGHT WOUNDS.  The amount of 
damage done varies somewhat but does not depend on the caster's level.

See also: CAUSE LIGHT, CAUSE CRITIC
#
"SENSE DEATH"
Usage       : cast sense death
Accumulative: 
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 12 magic user, level 5 cleric
Mana Usage  : 7

You focus and call upon death to tell you who died here recently and
what or who killed him/her/it.
#
BLINDNESS
Usage       : cast blindness <victim>
Accumulative: No 
Duration    : Level + 1 hours
Level       : Level 8 magic user, level 6 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5 

Blindness will blind a victim failing its saving throw.
A blinded person will have -4 penalty to hitroll and -40 to AC.

See also: AC
#
"PROTECTION FROM EVIL"
Usage       : cast protection from evil
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 24 hours
Level       : Level 6 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5

This spell creates an invisible shield around the caster's body.  Attacks
from evil creatures do half damage for the duration of the spell.  Only
clerics of good alignment may cast this spell.

See also: DETECT EVIL
#
TREMOR
Usage       : cast tremor
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 7 cleric.
Mana Usage  : 15

This spell will damage all mobs in the room.  There is also a chance of the
victims falling, if there is a down exit present.  This spell has no 
effect on players.  Damage increases with the caster's level.
#
"SENSE LIFE"
Usage       : cast sense life
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 5 hours per level
Level       : Level 7 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5

This spell will enable you to sense hidden life forms in a room.
Invisible persons are also considered hidden.

See also: HIDE
#
SUMMON
Usage       : cast summon <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 8 cleric
Mana Usage  : 50 + 50 more if victim is mounted on a horse or another beast

Will summon the person of the name spoken, if that person is in close 
enough proximity to you. The higher level you are, the greater the 
distance you may reach accross to summon someone. It is not possible to
summon someone of more than three levels above yourself.
You cannot summon people from a safe area, which includes all
shops.

Summon will also summon someones mount if they are mounted but it will cost
50 more mana.

The gods have been known to punish a cleric who abuses the power of
summoning.
#
POISON
Usage       : cast poison <victim | food | drink>
Accumulative: Yes on persons.
Duration    : 2 hours per Level, permanent on food and drinks.
Level       : Level 8 cleric
Mana Usage  : 10

Casting poison on food or drink (containers) will poison it. Eating 
poisoned food/drinks will poison the person eating or drinking.

A person who is poisoned will suffer 2 points of damage every hour, and 
gain less points per tick than usual.

See also: DETECT POISON, REMOVE POISON
#
"CURE CRITIC"
Usage       : cast cure critic <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 9 cleric
Mana Usage  : 20

This spell cures more than CURE SERIOUS.  The amount healed depends
on the caster's level.

See also: CURE LIGHT, CURE SERIOUS, HEAL
#
"REMOVE POISON"
Usage       : cast remove poison <victim | food | drink> 
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 9 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5

Will remove poison player or food.

See also: POISON
#
"CAUSE CRITICAL"
Usage       : cast cause critical <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 9 cleric
Mana Usage  : 20

This spell causes more damage than CAUSE SERIOUS.  The amount of damage
depends on the caster's level.

See also: CAUSE LIGHT, CAUSE SERIOUS
#
INFRAVISION
Usage       : cast infravision <victim>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Level * 2
Level       : Level 6 magic user, level 9 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5

This spell allows the victim to see in the dark, without a light source.
The victim will see players, mobs, and exits, but not items.
#
"LOCATE OBJECT"
Usage       : cast locate object <object>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 6 magic user, level 10 cleric
Mana Usage  : 20

This spell will show the caster the location of the object or the name of
the person who is carrying it.  If the object is being worn, then the caster
will not see that person's name.  The maximum number of objects you can 
simultaneously locate is your level divided by 2.
#
"DISPEL EVIL"
Usage       : cast dispel evil <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 10 cleric.
Mana Usage  : 15

This spell will only affect evil creatures.  An evil person of level
equal or less than the caster will suffer 100 damage points.

If the victim is higher level than caster, they make a saving throw 
versus spells for half damage.
#
IDENTIFY
Usage       : cast identify [victim|object]]
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 10 magic user, level 10 cleric
Mana Usage  : 12

Will list player's or object's attributes and stats.  This spell can not 
be used on mobs.
#
GATE
Usage       : cast gate 
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 19 cleric, level 26 mage
Mana Usage  : 150+

Creates a gate out of the catacombs to Castle Medievia.
#
"WORD OF RECALL"
Usage       : cast word of recall 
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 11 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5 + 10 if your mounted

The caster will be transported back to the town he or she last visited. 
Note that if you are too far away from the last town you entered, the 
spell will fail.  If you are mounted the mount will also be recalled but it 
will cost you 10 more mana.
# 
"CALL LIGHTNING"
Usage       : cast call lightning <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 12 cleric.
Mana Usage  : 20

This spell will use the "force of nature" to make lightning strike 
the victim.  It is therefore only possible to call lightning
outside when it is raining.  This spell is very powerful and will
inflict damage dependent upon the casters level.  Victims are allowed
a saving throw vs spells to reduce damage taken.

See also: WEATHER
#
"REMOVE CURSE"
Usage       : cast remove curse <person | object>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 12 cleric
Mana Usage  : 5

Will remove a curse on carried objects or any person in the room.
#
LEVITATE LEVITATION
Usage       : cast levitate <victim>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Level + 3
Level       : Level 7 magic user, level 12 cleric
Mana Usage  : 10

This spell gives the victim the ability to levitate up to a few feet 
above the ground.  This is used to travel over water without the use of a 
boat.  Please note this spell does not allow the recipient to fly like
a bird.
#
"BREATHE WATER" BREATHE 
Usage       : cast breathe water <person>
Accumulative: Yes
Duration    : 
Level       : Level 10 magic user, level 12 cleric
Mana Usage  : 10

Allows you to breathe underwater.
#
"CONTROL WEATHER"
Usage       : cast control weather <better/worse>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 10 mage, level 13 cleric
Mana Usage  : 25

Will make the future weather better or worse.

See also: WEATHER
#
SANCTUARY
Usage       : cast sanctuary <victim>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 3 hours
Level       : Level 13 cleric
Mana Usage  : 75

All damage to you is reduced to half.
#
FLAMESTRIKE
Usage       : cast flamestrike <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 13 cleric
Mana Usage  : 20

The caster calls forth a column of fire from the heavens to burn
the hapless victim.  The damage done increases with the caster's
level and a saving throw vs spells is allowed to reduce damage taken.
#
HEAL
Usage       : cast heal <victim>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 14 cleric
Mana Usage  : 50 

Heal will heal level*6 hit points if you are healing others.
It will heal level*3 if you are healing yourself.

See also: CURE LIGHT, CURE SERIOUS, CURE CRITIC
#
"FAERIE FOG"
Usage       : cast faerie fog 
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 10 magic user, level 14 cleric
Mana Usage  : 12

Will make all players that are invisible in the room appear for an instant.
#
"TURN UNDEAD"
Usage       : cast turn undead [victim]
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 5 hours per level
Level       : Level 15 cleric
Mana Usage  : 12

THIS SPELL IS DISABLED!
#
HARM
Usage       : cast harm <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 18 cleric.
Mana Usage  : 30

This spells drains the life energy of the victim.  Damage is
dependant on the caster's level, but is not variable within that
level of casting.  Victims that are higher level than the caster
are allowed a saving throw to reduce the damage done by this spell.
#
"MASS LEVITATION"
Usage       : cast mass levitation
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 
Level       : Level 10 magic user, level 15 cleric
Mana Usage  : 30

Casts fly on everyone in room.

See also: LEVITATE
#
"HANDS OF WIND"
Usage       : cast hands of wind [victim]
Accumulative: No
Duration    : INSTANT
Level       : Level 15 cleric
Mana Usage  : 70 + 1/2 mv

Creates a violent gust of wind which will unform the targets formation.
#
"DISPEL MAGIC"
Usage       : cast dispel magic <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 11 magic user, level 16 cleric
Mana Usage  : 15

This spell will attempt remove all spell effects from the target.  A 
victim within ten levels of the caster will make a saving throw versus 
spells to avoid the affect.  A victim of ten levels higher than the
caster is unaffected and one of ten levels lower will not get a save.
#
TRANSPORT
Usage       : cast transport
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 16 cleric
Mana Usage  : 50

This spell recalls every person in the caster's formation, including 
yourself, that are also in the room with you.

See also: WORD OF RECALL
#
"MASS INVISIBILITY"
Usage       : cast mass invisibility y
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 24 hours
Level       : Level 15 magic user, level 17 cleric
Mana Usage  : 20

This spell casts invisibility on every person in the room, 
except the caster.

See also: INVISIBILITY
#
DROWN
Usage       : cast drown [victim]
Accumulative: No
Duration    : NONE
Level       : Level 18 cleric
Mana Usage  : 15

THIS SPELL IS DISABLED!
#
SANDSTORM
Usage       : cast sandstorm 
Accumulative: No
Duration    : INSTANT
Level       : Level 20 magic user, level 20 cleric
Mana Usage  : 25

THIS SPELL IS DISABLED!
#
FIRESHIELD
Usage       : cast fireshield
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 4 hours
Level       : Level 16 magic user, level 22 cleric
Mana Usage  : 45

When protected by a fireshield, all damage against you is taken full, but
half of the damage is reflected back at the attacker.
#
DEMONFIRE
Usage       : cast demonfire <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 23 cleric
Mana Usage  : 27

This is one of the evil cleric's most powerful weapons.  By praying
to the gods of Evil, the caster may invoke a great erruption of flame.
This fire explodes from the ground all around the victim and surrounds
him/her.  The damage is determined by the caster's level and a saving 
throw vs spells is given to reduce the damage taken.
#
"HAMMER OF FAITH"
Usage       : cast hammer <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 25 cleric
Mana Usage  : 31

With this prayer, the cleric calls into being a ghostly warhammer which
lasts for one strike.  This magical weapon causes an enormous amount of
damage.  The power of the weapon's strike is dependent on the caster's
faith as compared to the victim's.  A saving throw vs spells is allowed
to the victim for reduced damage.
#
"MAP CATACOMBS"
Usage       : cast map catacombs
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Twice your level in hours
Level       : Level 17 magic user, level 28 cleric
Mana Usage  : 50

This spell is CRUCIAL if you want to wander into the catacombs.  When you 
cast the spell a purple aura anchors to your body.  As you walk around 
inside the catacombs small pieces of the purple energy releases from your 
aura and stay in the room, taking the shape of your name and how many 
times you have been in the room.  Everyone will see this in the rooms but 
only those with this spell on them will leave the text.  It is sort of like 
dropping peanuts in rooms as you walk around and counting them.  
#
"MAGIC MISSILE"
Usage       : cast magic missile <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 1 magic user.
Mana Usage  : 5

The least powerful magic user spell at low levels.  When casting this
spell, the mage creates a bolt of magical energy which strikes the
victim, never missing.  Damage is determined by the caster's level.
No saving throw is allowed.
#
VENTRILOQUATE
Usage       : cast ventriloquate <victim | object> <text>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 1 magic user
Mana Usage  : 5

THIS SPELL IS DISABLED!
#
"CHILL TOUCH"
Usage       : cast chill touch <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 3 magic user.
Mana Usage  : 15

This spell is more powerful than the magic missile spell, at low levels.
A victim failing its saving throw will get its strength reduced.
Spell damage increases slightly with the caster's level.
#
INVISIBILITY
Usage       : cast invisibility <victim | object>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 24 hours, permanent on objects.
Level       : Level 4 magic user
Mana Usage  : 5

Attacking while invisible will immediately break the spell.

See also: DETECT INVISIBILITY
#
"BURNING HANDS"
Usage       : cast burning hands <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 5 magic user.
Mana Usage  : 15

This spell is more powerful than the chill touch spell.  Damage increases
slightly with the caster's level.  Victims are allowed a saveing throw
vs spells to take reduced damage.
#
FEAR
Usage       : cast fear <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 6 magic user
Mana Usage  : 7 

This spell causes fear in the hearts of the brave.  Works best
when you need a break from fighting a particularly tough mob.
#
"SHOCKING GRASP"
Usage       : cast shocking grasp <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 7 magic user.
Mana Usage  : 15

This spell is more powerful than the burning hands spell.  Damage 
increases slightly with the caster's level.  A saving throw vs spells
is allowed to reduce the damage recieved.
#
STRENGTH
Usage       : cast strength [self]
Accumulative: Yes
Duration    : Level hours
Level       : Level 7 magic user
Mana Usage  : 20

A person will gain 1 strength point per spell (2 points if level of
caster is greater than 18, 3 points if level of caster is greater than
25). Maximum strength is 18.
#
WEAKEN
Usage       : cast weaken <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Half of Level of caster
Level       : Level 7 magic user
Mana Usage  : 20

This spell causes the victim's strength to decrease.  The more powerful 
the caster, the weaker the victim will become.
#
TELEPORT

Usage       : cast teleport [self]
Accumulative: - 
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 8 magic user
Mana Usage  : 35  

Teleport will instantly transfer you to another location in the world. 
This location is random.
#
"LIGHTNING BOLT"
Usage       : cast lightning bolt <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 9 magic user.
Mana Usage  : 15

This spell is more powerful than the shocking grasp spell.  Damage increases
with the caster's level and a saving throw vs spells is allowed to reduce
the damage recieved.  In rare occassions, the target may dodge the bolt
completely, taking no damage.

Note: If it is raining, this is the most damaging spell.
#
"CONJURE ELEMENTAL"
Usage       : cast conjure elemental
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 48
Level       : Level 9 magic user
Mana Usage  : 33

Conjures up a Elemental demon.  You must sacrifice a stone to do so.
Clear stone     -       Air Elemental
Deep Red stone  -       Fire Elemental
Dull Grey stone -       Earth Elemental
Pale Blue stone -       Water Elemental

Hold the stone and cast the spell.  The elemental's power will be based 
on the level of the caster.  He will be following you if successful, or 
he may attack.
#
"COLOUR SPRAY" "COLOR SPRAY"
Usage       : cast colour spray <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 11 magic user.
Mana Usage  : 15

This spell does approximately the same damage as the lightning bolt spell.
Damage increases with the caster's level.  Victims failing a save vs spells
will be blinded, reducing their chance to hit.  Victims are not allowed a
save to reduce the damage taken.
#
"SHIELD ROOM"
Usage       : cast shield room
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Level/2 hours
Level       : Level 11 magic user
Mana Usage  : 75

When cast, you envelope the room in a shimmering shield that will not 
allow a monster to walk into the room.
#
"ENCHANT WEAPON"
Usage       : cast enchant weapon <weapon>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Permanent
Level       : Level 12 magic user
Mana Usage  : 100

This spell will enchant non-magical weapons only.  A weapon with out any
applies is considered non-magical.  To determine if a weapon is suitable 
for enchantment, IDENTIFY it.

The enchantment will modify the weapon as:

Level    Hit Roll    Damage

 0..17     +1         +1
18..19     +2         +1
20..24     +3         +2
25..29     +4         +3
30..31     +5         +4
#
CURSE
Usage       : cast curse (victim | object)
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 5 hours per Level, permanent on objects.
Level       : Level 12 magic user
Mana Usage  : 20

Cast on a person that fails the saving throw, this spell will reduce
their hitroll by five, and reduce the saving throw versus spells by
two.  An object that is cursed can not be dropped and may also be
damaged by the spell.
#
"ENERGY DRAIN"
Usage       : cast energy drain <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 13 magic user.
Mana Usage  : 22

When this spell is cast, the magic user attempts to draw the victims
life energy out of his/her body and into the mage's own.  When successful,
this results in a loss of mana and movement for the victim, and an equal
gain for the mage.  The victim is allowed a saving throw to avoid the
effect.
Note that casting this spell is an evil act.
#
SHIELD
Usage       : cast shield
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Level of caster + 8
Level       : Level 13 magic user
Mana Usage  : 20

Modifies caster's AC by -20.
#
"CHAIN LIGHTNING"
Usage       : cast chain lightning
Accumulative: No
Duration    : None
Level       : Level 13 magic user
Mana Usage  : 22

This is a potentially critical spell.  When used the caster sends a
lightning bolt at the first mobile in the room (same as lighting bolt).  
The bolt then "jumps" from that mobile to another, and so on; hitting 
all mobiles in the room with a lightning bolt.  If the mob is killed by 
the bolt, the chain is broken and the energy dispersed.
The bolt loses some power with each "jump" it makes.  
#
"SLEEP SPELL"
Usage       : cast sleep <victim>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : until wears off, attacked or awakened.
Level       : Level 3 magic user
Mana Usage  : 15

Puts the person or mobile to sleep if they fail their save vs spells.
This spell will not work on any victim higher level than the caster or
higher than level 20.
#
"CHARM PERSON"
Usage       : cast charm person <victim>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : (432/Intelligence points of person) hours
Level       : Level 14 magic user
Mana Usage  : 5

A charmed person will follow you, and will not attack you.  A charmed 
person can be given orders.  It is not possible to charm anyone that is 
already charmed, if you're charmed yourself, or if the person is higher 
level than yourself.  The person will get a saving throw versus 
paralysation to avoid the affect.

See also: FOLLOW, ORDER
#
FARSIGHT
Usage       : cast farsight direction
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 17 magic user.
Mana Usage  : 15

Sorta allows you to see in all rooms heading off in the direction...
Powerful also in that you also see all exits in them rooms..
Great for Catacombs.
#
ETHEREAL   ********* DISABLED ********
Usage       : cast ethereal direction
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 19 magic user.
Mana Usage  : 20

Allows a mage to become a spirit and pass right through locked doors and
the such.
#
SHOCKWAVE
Usage       : cast shockwave VICTIM
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 25 magic user.
Mana Usage  : 23

THE MOST POWERFUL offensive spell in the game.... You focus and send
a huge shockwave into the victim, pounding the victim and causing
massive damage.  This spell is even more effective underwater.
A save vs spells is allowed to reduce the damage taken.
#
SCRIBE
Usage       : cast scribe SCROLLTYPE
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 22 magic user.
Mana Usage  : 50

If there is a LOT of blood in the room and you are HOLDING some sorta
paper or note.... You can focus and draw upon the blood to scribe a new
scroll....
Scrolls possible so far are:
identify
detect magic
detect invisibility
invisibility
faerie fire
refresh
infravision
fly
mass levitation
breathe water
mass invisibility
enchant weapon
EXAMPLE: cast scribe identify
#
BLOODBATH
Usage       : cast bloodbath
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 26 Cleric
Mana Usage  : 50

If there is so much blood in the room that it says there has been a 
bloodbath (10 kills) then a cleric can draw upon the blood and cast
a MASSIVE heal in the room.  ALL PLAYERS in the room will be FULLY Healed!
#
RESURRECT
Usage       : cast resurrect victim
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 27 Cleric
Mana Usage  : 150

Allows you to resurrect a corpse (PLAYER) that the necromancer has not yet
taken away.
ALL IN FORMATION and IN ROOM must have enough hits to GIVE to the corpse..
In other words your formation offers their strength for the spell.  The 
amount of hits taken IS proportioned to amount of hits you have so if someone
in the formation has a ton of hits they donate the most.
Gods have been rumored to viciously punish those mortals who abuse the
powers of resurrection.
#
FIREBALL
Usage       : cast fireball <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 15 magic user.
Mana Usage  : 18

This spell is more powerful than lightning bolt.  The spells damage
increases with the caster's level and a saving throw vs spells is allowed
to reduce the damage taken. WARNING!  If this spell is cast indoors,
you stand a good chance of ROASTING YOUR PARTY MEMBERS!

Note: if it is raining, this spell is greatly weakened.
#
"FROST SHARDS" "FROST SHARD"
Usage       : cast frost shards <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 16 magic user.
Mana Usage  : 16

With this incantation, the mage draws energy into his body and redirects
it out through his hands in the form of shards of ice.  A short burst of
these stone-hard crystals are projected at the victim, who is allowed a
saving throw vs spells to avoid some of the shards, taking less damage. 
#
"STONE SKIN"
Usage       : cast stone skin
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Level of caster
Level       : Level 18 magic user
Mana Usage  : 12

Modifies caster's AC by -70.
#
"ACID BLAST"
Usage       : cast acid blast [victim]
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 20 magic user
Mana Usage  : 16

With this spell, the caster sends a stream of acid at every creature
in the room.  The first stream is the most powerful, and each stream
thereafter is weakened.  The damage done increases with the caster's
level and a saving throw vs spells is allowed to reduce the damage
taken.
#
PLAGUE
Usage       : cast plague <victim>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Hours * your level/5 for the strength part
Level       : Level 21 magic user
Mana Usage  : 25

Can inflict massive amounts of damage, up to 30% depending on level.
Also drains the victims strength by 5 for a while.
#
WARRIOR FIGHTER

A Warrior's main duty is to protect the other group members.  Because of 
their high hit points, they will usually be placed in the front line of
a FORMATION where they will be subjected to most of the damage.
A Warrior will gain more hit points per level than other classes.  However
their MANA will remain at 100. A Warrior begins the game with a STRength
of 16.
A warrior is profiecent in nearly every type of weapon.  However, there
are some weapons which have powerful enchantments, placed there by powerful
magic, that prevent a warrior from using them.

SKILLS:
    KICK
    BASH
    PARRY
    RESCUE
    CHARGE
    DISARM
    SECONDATTACK
    THIRDATTACK
    MEDITATE

See also: PRACTICE, TRAIN
#
THIEF

Thieves have many skills which could greatly help a group or completely 
destroy an opposing group.  Thieves are very good as soloing adventurers.
When in a FORMATION, a thief's job is to loot corpses and to warn the party
of nearby enemies.
A Thief will gain more hit points per level than a MAGE, but not as much 
as a WARRIOR.  Thieves also gain MANA per level.  A Thief begins the game 
with a DEXterity of 16.

SKILLS:
    PICK
    SNEAK
    HIDE
    BACKSTAB
    THROW
    DISARM
    SCAN
    STEAL
    DUAL
    TRIP
    TRACK
    TRAP
    DODGE       
    MEDITATE

See also: PRACTICE, TRAIN
#
CLERIC

A Cleric is very valued member of any FORMATION.  They will usually be kept
protected, so they can concentrate on healing the injured members. 
Clerics have the ability to CAST spells and have about the same hit points
as a THIEF. A Cleric begins the game with a WISdom of 16. 
Due to the religious training of a Cleric's Deity, they are not permitted
to use edged weapons.

See also: PRACTICE, TRAIN, CAST, SPELLS
#
MAGE "MAGIC USER" WIZARD

Mages have the ability to cast SPELLS at the expense of low hit points.  
They are normally placed in the back of a FORMATION where they can attack 
with offensive spells, without being harmed.
A Mage begins the game with an INTelligence of 16
Because of a Mage's sole devotion to the Art, they only learn to use
daggers and staves in combat.

See also: PRACTICE, TRAIN, CAST, SPELLS
#
CAST

Mage and Cleric only.

Syntax: cast <spell name> [target]
Shortcut: c

Note: When casting a spell, the spells name can be abbreviate.  You need 
      only supply enough of the name for the parser to distinguish it 
      from other spells.

Example:
    'cast word of recall' and 'c w' are equivalent.

See also: SPELLS
#
SNEAK

When a player is sneaking, entering and exiting a room will not be show to
other players.  Aggressive mobs also have a chance of not noticing a 
sneaking player.  Just type SNEAK to attempt to start sneaking. Typing SNEAK 
when you are already sneaking will turn it off.
It is easier to backstab something if you sneak up on it.

See also : HIDE
#
HIDE

Thief only.

When you type hide there is a chance that you hide in the room.  If hidden
you can only be "sensed" by the "sense life" spell affecting a mob/player.
Even if sensed your identity will remain hidden, unless a faerie fog spell
is cast in the room.  Hide is broken by pressing return, regardless of
whether you typed a command or not.
#
PICK 

Thief only.

Most locks can be picked without the need for finding a key.

See also : UNLOCK
#
THROW

Thief only.

Syntax: throw <target>

Throwing requires a throwable weapon to be in your inventory, and also
a hand free (which means you can't HOLD something while throwing.  The 
throw will inflict damage based upon weapon stats, level, dexterity and 
strength.  A successful hit will inflict considerable damage.  The thrown
weapon will be moved to the targets inventory it hit, or to the floor if 
you missed.  
Wait State: hit = 1 round; miss = 2 rounds
#
TRIP

Thief only.

A successful trip will cause your victim to fall to the ground.  A fallen 
victim is stunned for 1 round.
Wait State: hit = 2 rounds; miss = 1 round
#
DODGE

Thief only.

If you succeed, you would have skillfully dodged your opponent's attack.
This skill is automatically used during combat.
#
BACKSTAB BS

Thief only.

In order to backstab, it must be used to initiate combat.  A successful
backstab will inflict an enormous amount of damage.  You can always 
backstab sleeping people.
Sneaking will increase your chance to successfully backstab.

Wait State: hit/miss = 3 rounds
#
SCAN

Thief only.

This skill allows thieves to scan all adjoining areas and list the
people and mobiles around.  Also states whether there is an exit that
is currently closed.

See Also: SECRET DOOR
#
DUAL

Thief only.

This skill allows a thief to get a maximum of two attacks per round of
combat. This skill is equivalent to the Warriors' skill, SECONDATTACK.

See also:  SECONDATTACK, THIRDATTACK
#
STEAL

Thief only.

You can steal gold or items from a mob's inventory.  However, most mobs
will attack if you fail.
#
TRAP TRAPS

Thief only.

Traps can be bought at the SHOPS in town.  You can not put a trap in a 
container.  When setting the trap, there is a 8% chance you will break it. 

Once Set:
     A trap will last about 4 minutes in the room, whether you are there
or not.  If a mob walks into the room it has about a 85% chance of stepping
into the trap.  If nothing happens in about 4 minutes the trap will misfire.
At that time, there is a 10% chance of trap breaking.  

Once a Mob is Trapped:
     A trapped mob can not move or use special attacks during combat.  It
also can not be in a formation or initiate combat.  The mob will remain
trapped for about 10 minutes, after which it will struggle free.
#
DISARM

Thief and Warrior only.

Disarming a player or mob, removes their weapon from their hands and places
it in their inventory.  
A disarm makes you unable to type commands for 3 rounds of violence for
a success, 2 rounds of violence without.

A character without a weapon will be unable to BASH or PARRY.
#
MEDITATE

Thief and Warrior only

Meditating allows a player to regain hit points at a faster rate at the
expense of movement points.  You must be resting and alone in the room
to concentrate.
#
PARRY

Warrior only.

If you succeed, you will have parried your opponent's attack.  This skill 
will automatically be used during combat.  You must have a weapon wielded 
to be able to parry.
#
SECONDATTACK THIRDATTACK MULTIATTACK

Warrior only.

These skills enable a Warrior to get a maximum of two and three attacks 
per round of combat.  SECONDATTACK is equivalent to the Thieves' skill,
DUAL.

See also:  DUAL
#
KICK

Warrior only.

A successful kick inflicts damage based on level, strength, dexterity and 
damroll.
Wait State: hit = 3 rounds, miss = 1 round
#
CHARGE

Warrior only.

Charge allows a Warrior to attack all mobs in the room, attempting to 
knock them over.  All damage done to a mob that is not standing is
increased by 50 percent.  You will be lagged for a few rounds after a
charge attempt.  Charge damage takes into account level, strength, 
dexterity and damroll.  You must stand back up after you charge.
#
BASH

Warrior only.

The victim of a bash will be stunned for one round.  Bash damage is based
on level and strength.  
Wait State: hit/miss = 2 rounds

You must have a weapon wielded to be able to bash.
#
RESCUE

Warrior only.

A rescue is an attempt to make a monster hit you instead of the person being
rescued.  You can only 'turn' one monster for each attempt.  This is only
effective when not in a formation.
#
CREDITS

Shows you the game credits.
#
ATM BANK

Syntax: balance
        deposit <amount>
        withdraw <amount>

ATM machines are located at the banks in most major cities.  There is no
limit to the amount of money you can have in your account.  However, there
is a 3.6% transaction fee whenever you deposit. 

Members of a clan can use the following commands to manipulate their clan's
bank account.

Syntax: balance clan
        deposit clan <amount>
        withdraw clan <amount>

Clan bank accounts are completely seperate from a players own account.
Any member of a clan may withdraw and deposit money into his or her own
clan's account.  The same 3.6% transaction fee applies.
#
USTOREIT LOCKER LOCKERS

Syntax: open/close
        rentlocker
        get <item/all>
        put <item>

Lockers allow you to store up to 50 items before you rent out of the game.
Storing items in a locker saves you from paying the rent on these items.
However, you must pay a fee of 150,000 coins for each month you have a 
locker.  This fee must be paid in advance. 

** If the month runs out and you have not paid for the next month, all 
   items in the locker will be lost.
#
GUILD

The Guildhouse is the place where a player must go to practice his skills
or learn spells.  

See also: PRACTICE
#
AC "ARMOR CLASS"

Armor Class (AC) is a rating of how much armor your character is wearing.
This number ranges from 100 to -100, with 100 being the worst and -100 being
the best.  The lower your AC, the harder it is for others to hit you with
a hand-to-hand attack.  What this means is that AC has no bearing on spell
casting.  While it is possible to get your AC lower than -100, this has
no bearing on the game in anyway.

The armor class scale is:

  100 Naked person
    0 Heavily armored
 -100 Divine armor

You do not see your AC rating as a number on your SCORE until level 15.
From levels 1 to 14, a phrase is given to hint at your general AC.

See Also: THAC0
#
THAC0 THACO

THAC0 means To Hit Armor Class Zero (0).  Every character and creature
has a thac0.  It is a number between 200 and -100.  The lower your thac0,
the better.  Meaning, it is easier to hit your target.  When you attempt
a target with a weapon or bare-handed, the game picks a number between
1 and 200.  A roll of 1 means you automatically miss, while a roll of 200
means you automatically hit.  Any number inbetween, is compared to your
thac0 to determine a hit or miss.  If the number rolled is lower than your
thac0, you miss.
How your thac0 is calculated:
   Every character starts with a base thac0, determined by class and level.
Warriors have the best base thac0, then thieves, followed by clerics and
finally mages.  Simply but, warriors make the best fighters and mages the
worst.  Assume you're a new character and your base thac0 is 200.  From
this number you subtract your HITROLL, an additional bonus may be subtracted
if your character has a high enough strength score.  After all of this,
assume your thac0 is now 180.  From this number you subtract your targets
Armor Class.  Suppose you're fighting a janitor with an AC of 90, your
thac0 to hit this particular mob would be 90 (180 - 90).  Now the game is
ready to pick its random number between 1 and 200.  Any number over 90 will
score a hit.

See Also: AC, HITROLL
#
HITROLL

Hitroll is a bonus added to your THAC0 which increases your chance of
hitting a target in hand-to-hand combat or when fighting with a weapon.

Your Hitroll does not show up on your SCORE until you reach level 15.

See Also: THAC0
#
DAMROLL

Damroll is a bonus added to your damage in hand-to-hand combat or when
fighting with a weapon.  Every weapon has a "damage dice" which is
represented by 2 numbers in the form x d y.  The number x is the AMOUNT
of dice rolled and the number y is the number of sides on the dice rolled.
i.e. a weapon that does 4d5 would mean the game rolls 4 dice, each with
5 sides, to determine the damage done by a single hit by this weapon.
When doing damage to a target with a weapon, you also add in a bonus
known as DAMROLL.  Each class' damroll is added in differently, reflecting
their abilities in the fighting arts.  If a warrior has a damroll of 20,
he would add in the roll 20 extra points of damage for each hit he lands.
A thief would add in a random number between 10 and 20 (half damroll to
full damroll).  Mages and clerics would add in a number between 1 and 20
(1 to full damroll).  Refering again to the 4d5 weapon above, your total
damage would be 4d5+20.

See Also: HITROLL
#
ATTRIBUTE ATTRIBUTES ABILITY ABILITIES STR INT WIS DEX CON

Your character has five attributes:
    strength
    intelligence
    wisdom
    dexterity
    constitution

Your attribute scores can go as high as 18. Each attribute effects your 
character in a different way.  Higher scores give your character the 
following advantages.

Strength     - increases the total weight you can carry
             - wield a heavier weapon
             - increase damage done by warrior/thief skills
             - increase hitroll and damroll

Intelligence - learn skills and spells faster (use less practices)
             - lose concentration less when casting spells

Wisdom       - gain more practices per level
             - gain more mana per level
             - aids clerics in spellcasting (as appossed to intelligence)

Dexterity    - increase damage done by warrior/thief skills
             - lessen chance of falling when bashed
             - lowers armor class
             - increased effectiveness of thief skills

Constitution - gain more hit points per level
             - gain more hit points per tick

See also: PRACTICE, TRAIN
#
PROMPT PROMPTS FLAG FLAGS

Your prompt will look something like this:

		<22hp 100m 90mv 100br>

This first number [22hp] represents the number of 'Hit Points' that you
have.  When you get hit by a monster, you will lose a certain number of 
hit points, when this value goes to 0, you will die.  There are three ways 
to regain hit points,  sleep, quaff potions, or find a kind Cleric who will 
heal you.

The second number [100m] represents the number of 'MANA' points that you
have. MANA is the magical energy of Medievia, whenever you cast spells
(if your a Cleric or Mage) you will use a certain amount of MANA energy.
The only way to replace MANA energy is to sleep.

The third number '90mv' represents 'Movement points'.  When this number
reaches [0] you will become exausted and no longer be able to move
around.  There are two ways to regain Movement Points.  The first is to
sleep, and the second is use magical spells

The last number '100 br' represents 'Breath points'.  Breath is different 
from movement in that it indicates how much air you are getting in 
proportion to how fast your moving.  The faster you move, the more oxygen 
you require, at some critical point your muscles will be consuming more 
oxygen that you are able to take in.  If this happens your breath will 
reach 0, and you will have to slow down. Note that breath regenerates 
much faster than movement.

Note that if you are mounted your prompt changes to reflect your mounts 
movement, and your mounts breath:
         
           eg.  <362hp 242m 500MountMV 100MountBR>

Your prompt can have differnt flags 
shown as well.  These flags are documented as follows:

[SOCIAL] - You have not been fighting for fifteen minutes.  The code
           assumes you are socializing and will not display the
           hungry/thirsty messages each tick.

[MAIL] - You have mail waiting for you at the post office.

[TAGGED] - You are it.

<[70%]Vryce> - When you are in a formation, you will see a prompt similar
               to this.  This shows you which member of the formation has
               the lowest hit points and a percent of their total they
               currently have.
#
MULTICLASS

When you reach level 31, you may continue on to another class.  By doing
so, you retain all your skills and attribute scores from your previous 
class, and enter the world again as Level 1 of your new class.  Your hit 
points, mana, and movement are all reset.

See Also: MULTICLASS_FAQ
#
EXPERIENCE XP

Whenever you inflict damage on a monster, you earn experience points.
You will also receive experience points when you kill a mob.  

Experience cap - This is the highest amout of XP you can earn by killing
                 any one mob.  Your cap will increase as you become higher
                 level and when you are in a formation.

You lose XP when you flee from combat and when you are player killed in a 
chaotic area.
#
INFO

Gives you some useful hints and information about the game.
#
STORY

Shows you the story behind MEDIEVIA.
#
NEWS

Shows you what is new concerning the MUD. Your prompt may show NEWS if there
is new news you have not read yet.  If new news is made you see it instantly
with no mud restart needed.  If you are a god and want to post new news you
made type new news.

You can read old news issues by typing news followed by the issue number.
The first issue of this news system is issue 1
#
LEVELS LEVEL

Lists the levels of your class and the XP needed to attain each. 
#
WIZLIST

Shows you the current Gods & Immortals in the game.
#
IMPLEMENTOR IMMORTAL GOD GODS IMP

The Implementors are Vryce, Io, Shalafi, Sultress, Ugadal, Semele, and Firm.
It is through our hundreds of hours of work that you can enjoy MEDIEVIA 
Our email addresses can be found in the wizlist.

The mud is run and owned by VRYCE and INTENSE Software.

For programming information: mkrause@netaxs.com (Vryce)
                
If you have a problem with the game, implementors and immortals are there
to help you.

If an implementor or an immortal asks you to do something, then do it.
If they ask you how something happened, then tell them.  As a player in
our mud, you are a guest at the party we are throwing.  If you hassle us,
we'll kick you out.

On the other side ... if an immortal interferes with game balance, or uses
immortal power to harass players, we (the implementors or chief immortal)
will demote as needed.  An immortal is not a superman mortal.  They are
there to help run the game, not for their own personal enjoyment.

All of the implementors, and most of the immortals, also have mortal
characters.  Feel free to treat these as you would any other players.
They don't get any special benefits for their mortal chars, and you don't
owe them any more than you do other mortal chars.
#
MEDIEVIA

Welcome to MEDIEVIA!  

Medievia, simply put, is the most exciting, enjoyable, and dynamic multi 
user game in existence.  Medievia bagan humbly enough, but unlike most 
other MUD's it flourished.  Vryce, the senior programmer for Medievia, 
has never been content to simply follow the pack, so while other MUD's 
remained more or less the same, Medievia forged ahead, pushing the 
limits, with one primary purpose, to create the best MUD around.  

Medievia now runs on a top of the line SUN dedicated to Medievia, and 
Medievia alone. Powered with 64 megabytes of memory, a gigabyte of storage, 
and with a direct T3 line to the internet, Medievia out-performs everything 
in sight.        

Medievia has been thouroghly debugged, and has added features which 
protect us from net disruptions.  This means that you can play without 
fear of code based interuption.

And what does that code provide?  For starters Medievia has more features
than most mud's can even imagine.  We have: Mounts, a revolutionary trade 
system, with dozens of tradeable items, realistic weather patterns, tweak 
code, which means many unique items, a HUGE playing area, built in  
Auto_Quests,  clans, ansi color, Homes(expandable), ATM, user friendly rent, 
U_Store_It lockers, A post office, donation room, bulletin boards, clan 
channels, a social area replete with a casino, and a newspaper. We also have 
INTELLIGENT mobiles, and the best formation combat system in existence.  
Yes that's right you may form a group, and position your party members as 
you like!  

The true beauty of Medievia, however, is in the playing. Often when a 
player is asked why they play Medievia as opposed to some other mud, they 
can only describe it as a feeling.  The fact is that most people get that 
feeling the first time they log on to medievia.  In a sense all the 
coding, and all the writing has taken on a life of it's own, such that 
the whole of Medievia is greater than the sum of it's parts. Much of the 
credit for this goes to the players themselves, without whom Medievia 
would be a lifeless hunk.  We believe that you are the life breath of 
Medievia, and we strive to provide you with a continually evolving, 
living world in which the only boundaries are those of your 
imagination.  Welcome to Medievia, THE MUD OF THE FUTURE!    

Medievia is funded by NETAXS.COM (access.netaxs.com), a Philadelpia 
public access site run by Avi Freedman (freedman@access.netaxs.com).  
Medievia is managed by our programmer Vryce (mkrause@netaxs.com), who 
says please only e-mail when absolutely necessary.  The Medievia rooms, 
objects, and mobiles, are managed by Shalafi 
(Shalafi@intense.netaxs.com).  But mainly Medievia is run, played and 
supported by the true Medivites-the players and their love for the game.

Medievia - ...The Next Step...
#
HELP

Syntax: help <key word/phrase>

Simply typing HELP will get you the main help menu.  Help searches for a 
match of the entered keyword. Throughout the help text, keywords which have 
help associated with them, are given in all caps.

Example:
    'help magic missile'
    will find the help text for the magic missile spell.

    'help magic mis'
    will not match 'magic missile' or anything else. 

As show above, in the case of spell names, you must enter the entire spell 
name as shown in the spell list generated by typing 'help spells'.
#
HOMES HOME HOUSE

Having a home allows you to quit the game without having to rent at the
hotel or put equipment in your locker.  Homes can only be bought at certain
times, at which, they will be auctioned off to the highest bidder.
Check the board for any new information.

See Also: REALESTATE_FAQ
#
"DRAGON CRYSTAL" DRAGON CRYSTAL DC

A Dragon Crystal is perhaps the most valued treasure in all of Medievia.
When a Dragon Crystal is offered at the fountain in Tear (type: offer 
crystal), you are rewarded up to 75 practice sessions.  The amount awarded
is totally random.  Dragon Cyrtals can be found on any mob, anywhere in the
world.  The placement of the crystals is also totally random.  When a mob is
killed, there is a chance that a crystal will appear in the corpse.  Dragon
Crystals are invisible, so they are difficult to find.  Dragon crystals will
NOT be found anywhere in the wilderness or the catacombs.  They are on
random monsters in the detailed ZONE areas.  There are always 20 dragon
crystals placed around to be found.
#
TRAIN 

Syntax: train <ability>

You can use your practices to increase your ability scores.  You must
be at the training facility to train an ability.  

Increasing an ability costs 35 practices or 20 if it is your primary ability.

The primary abilities are as follows:
    WARRIOR = STRENGTH
    CLERIC  = WISDOM
    THIEF   = DEXTERITY
    MAGE    = INTELLIGENCE

See also: ABILITY, PRACTICE
#
PRACTICE 

Syntax: practice [skill/spell]

Practice is the way you improve your spells and skills.  You must go to
your guildmaster to practice.  With no argument, PRACTICE lists your
current skills.  

You get more practices every time you level, depending on your wisdom.

Wisdom  Practices
  13        2
  14        2
  15        3
  16        3
  17        4
  18        5

See also: TRAIN, ABILITY
#
RENT QUIT AUTORENT

You must rent at the Hotel in Medievia or the Inn in Trellor to save your
character and his equipment, or if you are in the wilderness you may 
use the camp command.  If you quit while you are alive, you will 
lose all the equipment you are currently carrying.  You can quit while
undead with no problems.  If you lose link and are unable to rent, after
a length of time, the MUD will autorent your character.

!!!REMEMBER!!! If you want your mount around when you camp and quit you must be
mounted when you quit.

SEE ALSO  CAMP CAMPING
#

LIST BUY SELL VALUE SHOPS SHOP

The shops in town are where you can buy supplies and sell any treasure 
and equipment you might have found.  Each shop deals in certain types 
of goods, therefore you must find the correct shop that will buy what you
have to sell.

LIST  - tells you what a shop has for sale.
BUY   - buys things by name.
SELL  - sells items you have to the shopkeeper for gold.
VALUE - tells you how much a shopkeeper will pay for an item.

If there are two items with the same name on the Store's list, and you
wish to purchase the second, type: buy 2.<item name>
#
SAVE

Medievia now has autosaving.

See Also: "SAVING THROWS"
#
BUG TYPO IDEA

For making useful suggestions to the implementors.

Examples:
    'bug the entire game crashes when I type put bag in bag'
    'idea make a restaurant in Medievia'
    'typo sence should be spelled sense'

** Except in the case of the MUD crashing, please use these commands 
   instead of trying to talk to a god on-line.
#
MAKECLAN

35 God only.

Syntax: makeclan <number> <leader name> <clan name>

The player must have 75MIL gold on him.  The code will take the enrollment
fee from him.  The player must be level 15+.
#
LEADCLAN

33+ God only.

Syntax: leadclan <number>
#
TRANSCLAN

33+ God only.

Syntax: transclan <number>

Puts all players of that clan in your room. You must use LEADCLAN first. 
#
LOGCLAN

33+ God only.

Syntax: logclan <number>

Starts a log on all clan members.  You must use LEADCLAN first.
#
SDB SEARCHDB

God only.

Syntax: sdb <obj/char> <keyword>

Searches the database for the keyword and returns the object/character 
numbers.
#
STRING

God only.

Syntax: string <obj/char> <name> <field> <string> <keyword>

For changing the text-strings associated with objects and characters. 

Fields:
Name                  (the call-name of an obj/char - kill giant)
Short                 (for inventory lists (obj's) and actions (char's))
Long                  (for when obj/character is seen in room)
Title                 (for players)
Description           (For look at. For obj's, must be followed by a keyword)
Delete-description    (only for obj's. Must be followed by keyword)

Where a string is expected as the last argument, a newline will make you 
enter a string mode, and the game will prompt you for new lines to the 
string until you exceed the maximum length for the string or you end a 
line with a '@'.
#
ALLOW

God only.

Remove a site from the ban list.
#
BAN

God only.

Ban a site from MEDIEVIA.
#
DISCONNECT

God only.

Disconnect a socket.
#
FREEZE

God only.

Freeze a Player.
#
LOG

God only.

Start or stop logging a player.
#
REROLL

God only.

Reroll a player.
#
LOAD

God only.

Syntax: load <obj/char> <number>

Loads an object or character from the database.  
#
PURGE

God only.

Syntax:  
  purge                         Empty a room of monsters and objects.
  purge <character>             Disconnects a player.
  purge <object>                Removes the object.
#
STAT

God only.

Syntax: stat <player name/mob name>
        stat room
#
WIZHELP

God only.

A listing of the commands for gods.
#
SOCKETS

God only.

Lists the IP addresses of players logged on.
#
ADVANCE

God only.

To advance a player to a level higher or lower than his present.
#
RESTORE

God only.

Reset that players hit points, mana, and movement to the current maximum.
#
SHOWSTATS

God only.

Example: 
    showstats balor - shows balor your stats.
    showstats       - shows yourself your stats.
#
VRYCE

God of Programming - In charge of the code, owner of Medievia.
#
CARDS

Syntax: <dealer command> <player name> <number of cards>

Dealer Commands: 
shuffle - takes all cards and shuffles the deck.
showdeal [sd] - deals cards face up.
hidedeal [hd] - deals cards so only player can see them.
downdeal [dd] - deals cards face down.

Player Commands:
cards - shows you your cards, 'cards a' will show everyone's cards.
discard - lets you discard a card...discard 7h qd 9d etc.
show - flips all your cards over for everyone to see.
ante - ante # will make you drop # coins for the ante.
raise - raise # will make you drop # coins for the bet.
fold - will fold your hand for current game.
#
"WATER REAPER"
A water reaper is a live magical animal totally made of water..it is ...
how to say... LARGE!  If you have seen the movie abys, where the creature
made of all water enters ...you see it go from room to room, changing shape
the whole time and getting bigger and bigger...  A Medievia water reaper
flows through the tunnels in the catacombs and as it does it pretty much
completely fills the area...forming itself to the tunnel...like a solid
mass.  They roam around and when one enters your area...you sorta SPLASH
right inside it!  At that point you are at its will....it wont hurt you,
it is nice :)   BUT, you cannot get out, you are in for a ride..  If it
happens to roll into a lake it will dissipate...  Or sometimes it will
just fall apart..
#
DONATION DONATIONS TALISMAN TALISMANS
Yes, donations are accepted here at Medievia!  Not only are they 
accepted, they are encouraged.  Medievia is a money sucking monster that 
takes away all of Vryce's money. Donations are the only way he has to 
supplement his contributions and ensure that Medievia stays alive. Taking 
suggestions from focus groups on how to make donations in 1995 more 
successful, we have come up with a PLAN! With donations of $20 and up we 
will mail your character a complimentry gift! The Medievia Talisman! Its 
stats are....  AC-apply[20] HIT-Points[100] DAMROLL[7] Weight[5] Level is 
0.  This item cannot be dropped, given, lockered, put, donated, mailed, 
etc...  One you receieve, it is YOURS, forever, your character may not 
even if you wanted, loose it. A list is kept of the proud citizens of 
Medievia who have helped and who have recieved the Talisman.
  
To donate to Medievia, send funds to:   
   
Mike Krause 
Benson Apartments 
100 Old York Road #924E 
Jenkintown, PA 19046 
   
Payable to Mike Krause. Acceptable funds are A 20 dollar bill, checks, 
money orders. (If sending Money please wrap in paper.) ALSO, YOU MUST I 
repeat MUST give me your mud character name with the funds if you want 
the gift.
  
MANA TALISMAN AVAILABLE FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY!! In addition to the
hitpoint Talisman, a mana version will be offered to those who have already
donated for another 20 dollars. The mana Talisman is exactly the same as the
other, except it has +100 mana instead of hitpoints. This is being offered
until we have enough to pay for the memory for the new machine, so HURRY!
The Mana Talisman will be available as long as this notice remains here.
#
HANDBOOK
        Your HANDBOOK to MEDIEVIA - Rules and Regulations
======================================================================

  Medievia is owned and operated by INTENSE Software, co-sponsered by
  the public on ramp netaxs.com.  Email medievia@bigboy.cis.temple.edu.
  Any serious problems, tell VRYCE, the owner or email him at
  mkrause@bigboy.cis.temple.edu.

1. Try to keep the profanity to a minimum.
2. The Gods are here to serve you, please ask gods level 32-33 for minor
   things like questions and lost items.  We have over 24 Gods here to
   help you but most are usually busy making new zones and coding new
   commands and ideas.  Please try and ask another player for most help.
3. Please use the IDEA, BUG and TYPO command to let us know your ideas,
   any bugs you find and typo's.  These commands save your input to
   files for us to go over weekly.
4. Multiple players are not allowed here, you will be purged if we find
   you have more than one player on at once, and yes we do check your
   sight for verification.  We have some player kill areas and we want
   the game to be fair.  The code will warn you and ask for your
   verification before allowing you to enter a playerkill area.
5. Spamming, harassing of players, dropping items repetedly, etc etc...
   are to appear uncivilized, etc...
6. Harming a player by using un-civilized manners like summoning someone
   to an aggressive critter will result in you being purged.  This type
   of behavior will be judged by the level 35 GODS.
7. You acknowledge that by using this mud, you hold none of it's
   operators, or the Net Access service responsible for ANYTHING that happens,
   either to yourself, or your hardware, as a result of the use of this
   service.
8. You acknowledge that nothing on Medievia is guarenteed to be private
   and everything is subject to be logged.

   Please use the PRAY command to speak with the Gods of Medievia.
#
NEWBIE

The following is a list of help topics that should be useful to new
players.  To look at them, type HELP <topic name>:

	PROMPT			HUNGER			THIRST
	OTHER PLAYERS		HELP			PRAY
	CHANNELS		COMBAT			LEVELING
	GROUPING		HOTEL			DONATION ROOM
	SCORE			HINTS
#
HUNGER THIRST
The next thing you will notice, is that you will soon become hungry and
thirsty.  This is all part of Medievian life.  When you are hungry or
thirsty, you will regain Hit Points, MANA and Movement Points at a very
slow rate.  To satiate your hunger and thirst, you must find the nearest
grocery store, and general store, to buy food and water.

*NOTE*   Waterskins only hold a limited amount of water, and if you drink
         all the water out of it.  It will disappear.  Waterskins, or any
         other container for that matter, must be periodically refilled
         at the WaterFountain.
#
"OTHER PLAYERS"
Medievia is a MUD.  MUD stands for 'Multi User Dungeon'.  As such, you
will see lots of other players in Medievia, walking from place to place.  
You should talk with them, as they are a valuable source of information and
help.  To talk to other people, just type:

SAY <phrase>  Also '  is short for say so  ' <phrase> will also work

Medievians are a kind and helpful bunch of players, and will help you as
best they can.
#
LEVELING
This is one of the more pleasant things to happen while in Medievia.
When you gain Enough Experience points from combat, you will gain a
'LEVEL'.

When you gain levels, you also gain Valuable Practice Points.  You can
trade in these Practice Points at the local Guild for Spells (If your a
Cleric or Mage) or Skills (If your a Thief or Warrior).  The Guilds are
located on Guild Row.  In the southern part of town.  Type  level  to
see the experience needed per level, your current experience and many 
other variables about youself can be seen by typing score.
#
GROUPING
Grouping is an exceptionally important part of Medievian life.  By forming
groups, you will earn more Experience points.  And you will be able to
kill monsters that you normally wouldn't be able to alone.  To form a group,
first find a couple players who will group with you.  Then, decide who
will lead the group.  All of the other players will then FOLLOW that
leader.

Grouping can be complicated at first.  So you should type HELP GROUP to
find out how to do this.
#
HOTEL GOHOME
The Hotel is where you RENT your Equipment for the night.  It is the only way
you can quit the game, and not LOSE your equipment unless you have a gohome.  
On the Medievian continent, it is located on Enterprise Avenue, just East of
the Town Crier.

A 'gohome' is where advanced players have purchased the right to rent
freely after a hard day of adventuring.  To inquire about purchasing a
gohome, type WIZLIST to see who the real estate god/goddess is and speak
with them.
#
"DONATION ROOM"
The Donation room is a place for you to find Items and Equipment that may
help you kill monsters, or survive better.  But be careful, some of the
Equipment in there is Junk.  To donate an item that you find, simply
type:

DONATE <item>

Remember, the items in the donation room is for new players, take what
you need and leave the rest.  Selling items that you have found in the
donation room is considered rude and inconsiderate.
#
HINTS
- The first thing you should probably do, is go to the MAP room and look
  at the map of the City, and of Medievia.

- The second thing to do, is to go into the DONATION room.  Here, you
  may find EQ that will help you kill monsters.

- Third, walk around the city a bit, and get familiar with the layout.
  The layout of the city may seem a bit confusing at first, but you will
  quickly learn to find your way around.

- The first monsters you will want to find and kill, will probably be
  Bugs in the tree and Beggars, Drunks, and Janitors.

- You will get More EXP from being in a Group, than you will being Alone.

- Some weapons are MUCH better than others, be sure to ask around as to what
  the best weapon for you is.

And lastly, Enjoy your stay at Medievia.  This is truly an Excellent
MUD.  If you have any questions, feel free to talk to other players, or
talk to one of the Gods.
#
ATTRACTIONS
MEDIEVIA IS the place to be!  MEDIEVIA has so many fun attractions that
you may never run out of things to do.  There is something for everyone's
taste and new adventures you will not find at any other mud.  To help
you become acquainted with what MEDIEVIA has to offer, please read on.

CASINOS
Try your hand at a card game with friends, or try you luck at the
roulette table or slot machines.  Signs are posted (type look sign) that
will instruct you on how to play the games.  At the card tables, which
work like a real deck of cards, you can play most any card game.  Private
rooms on the Casino's second floor are provided for socializing and
ensure privacy, even from Gods!

NIGHTCLUBS * RESTAURANTS * COFFEEHOUSES
There are many places in MEDIEVIA to meet new friends, socialize, share a
meal or a drink.  A warning to the teatotalers, MEDIEVIA brews have been
known to affect your accuracy during a battle.

SOCIALS
There are many ways to express yourself here.  To get a list of social
commands, type "social."  You may want to print these and try each of them
out.  To use these social commands, for example: type "smile <name>.  You
would see yourself beaming a smile at that person.  If there is not a
social that fits your needs, you can use "emote".  To use the emote command,
type "emote smiles in your direction."  This would display "<your name>
smiles in your direction."  This command is very flexible and useful.

PUBLIC CHANNELS
There are a variety of public channels in MEDIEVIA.  They include:
gossip, quest and discussion, and shout. To set your channels on or off 
so you can read or not readwhat other players are talking about, type 
"setcom."

Gossip is the main chat channel.  This is another way to get to know most
of the players in Medievia and talk about all kinds of things.  Swearing
or talking about offensive subjects is not encouraged and not allowed.

Tells are a private way to communicate with one other player.  To send a
tell, type "tell <name> .  Be aware that communicating by tell, will
decrease your "move" every time you send a tell.
#
"CRITICAL HIT" CRITICAL

CLASS:  Current warriors only.

Critical hits are very rare times when you find a weakness in your
opponents defenses and score a more damaging blow.  Critical hits are
quite rare.
#
TRIVIA

The trivia channel is a channel that randomly broadcasts information to
the mud.  Most of this information is more beneficial to new players
than older players.

To toggle this channel type SETCOMM TRIVIA.

#~
