Medievia Information File                             Updated September, 1994
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Classes]
   
Once you enter the world of Medievia, you will have to pick a class. 
There are four classes available to you: MAGE, CLERIC, THIEF, WARRIOR. 
Mages are known for their powerful offensive and defensive spells but 
they are also frail by nature. Cleric's are the healers of the world, 
they heal wounds, cure poisons and create objects that sustain life. 
Thieves are renound for thief sneakyness. They hide, backstab and steal 
every chance they get. Warriors are known for their strength and power, 
they are very hearty and last long in battles. Each class has it's 
advantages and disadvantages, to become very powerful you must form a 
formation.
  
[Formations]
  
Formations are very powerful, they are much more powerful than groups. 
When you are in a formation, your can attack many more powerful mobs and 
get much better treasure. When you are in formation the damage you 
receive in a fight depends on your position. There are 9 positions: 
Front Left, Front Center, Front Right, Center Left, Center Center, Center 
Center Right, Back Left, and so on. To form a formation you must choose a 
leader, use the FOLLOW command to follow your leader. The leader can 
change your position using the REFORM command. A very powerful analytical 
tool when assesing your formation is the FORMTEST command. FORMTEST fires 
150 virtual hits at your formation and calculates the percentage of 
hits each person in the formation is getting. When you form together with 
other players, you will gain levels faster and be able to explore many 
dangerous parts of the world.
  
[Skills]
  
Each class in Medievia has it's own skills. As you learn skills, your 
range of abilities increases and you become more powerful. To learn new 
skills you must go to a guild. Once you are at the guild, you can use the 
PRACTICE command to practice a new skill. When you practice skills, you 
use practice points. Every time you level, you grain practice points which 
you can use practice new skills.

[Food and Drink]

Every so often you will get a message "You are hungry" or "You are 
thirsty", this means you need to eat food or drink some water. If you do 
not eat and drink, you will not die but the rate you regain movement, 
hitpoints and mana will be much lower compared to when you are full. You 
can also even further increase your regeneration rate by sleeping or 
resting. You can buy food and waterskins at any bakery or general store.
     
[Clans and Real Estate]
     
Once you become experienced in the game, you might want to join a clan. 
Clans are groups of players which help each other out, group with each 
other and basicly stick together. Each clan has their own private talk 
channel which they can discuss on. To become a member of a clan, you must 
talk to the clan leader and ask them to join. To join most clans, you 
usually have to meet special criteria the clan leader sets. For more 
information on clans look at the help on clans.
   
Once you become wealthy, you might want to buy yourself a house. Houses 
are for pure luxury and are mainly a status symbol. When you own a home 
you do not have to pay rent. House Auctions usually start at 100mil, a 
notice of a auction will be posted on the bulletin board.

[Misc]
  
To get some information on the game statistics, you can use the LISTZONES 
command and the MUDINFO command. If you have any questions about the 
game, please ask one of more experienced players or a god online.

General Hints
-------------
     -Read the Bulletin board often.
     -Don't be afraid to explore new areas.
     -Read the help on what you are confused with before asking.
     -Read the FAQ, guide, and handbook that you start with.
     -Read the Undead Handbook when you die.

Rules
-----
  -Dropping link to avoid wait states, to flee out of battle, or for any
   other reason Gods deem unlawful is illegal.
  -Exploitation of a bug is a serious offence.  The defence "I didn't know
     it was a bug" is no excuse (Gods' discretion).
  -You should always answer a god's question truthfully.
  (There are other rules, these are just the more commonly broken ones, if
   in doubt, ask a god before you act.)

** All broken rules are punishable by anything from a warning to deletion **
